This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com







SAMUEL BUTLER
 AUTHOR OF EREWHON

     MACMILLAN AND CO., L1m1ted
   LONDON • BOMBAY • CALCUTTA . MADKAS
               MELBOURNE
     THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
       NEW YORK - BOSTON • CHICAGO
         DALLAS • SAN FRANCISCO
THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd.
                TORONTO


<S&aH*r &-
           xSitetch from hid ourn. .he.ad            *. Abrii I8f8
                                  n'aar/aa 21 x 1f
                 ttt. CiJt. Jirhji'd Cxoihuzc (jtunkr^d.gc

 B        n
           ES
¦ LUMES
   885
       LIMITED
       LOND'

 w%
%'$£&.

SAMUEL BUTLER
   AUTHOR OF EREWHON
            (1835-1902)
      A MEMOIR
                  BY
    HENRY FESTING JONES
                           Handel, Fuga VI.
         IN TWO VOLUMES
           VOL. I. to 1885
 MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
 ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON
               1919

. COPYRIGHT
                                                    BT Z8
                                                    141 q
                                                    V.I
                                                    MAIM
                        PREFACE
In the preface to The Note- Books of Samuel Butler (19 12)
 1 wrote that in 1891 Butler attacked afresh the problem
 of dealing with his manuscript notes, and made it a rule
 to spend an hour every morning re-editing them and
 keeping his index up to date. "At his death in 1902 he
 left five bound volumes with the contents dated and
  indexed, about 225 pages of closely-written sermon paper
  to each volume, and more than enough unbound and
  unindexed sheets to make a sixth volume of equal size."
      There are many notes in the manuscript Note-Books
  which I purposely excluded from the published selection
  because I wanted them for this Memoir ; especially there
  are these five autobiographical items :
      (1) A skeleton Diary of his life from 1864, when he
  returned from New Zealand, until 1899.. He entitled
 this " Memoranda from old account books preserved to
  refresh my own memory only." He means that he
  preserved the memoranda ; he destroyed many of the
  account books, wherein he entered and balanced his
  personal expenditure every evening ; of those found after
 his death all were destroyed except two, one containing
 entries from 1897 to 1900, the other from 1900 to his
 death, the concluding entries being in the handwriting of
 his clerk, Alfred Emery Cathie. For the purpose of the
 Diary he also used the dates on his snapshot photographs.
      (2) A Statement, about 3000 words long, headed
 "Autobiographical Notes, written about 1883 at the
request of Henry J. Nicholls, Free Kirk, Kelso, N.B."
     (3) Another Statement, about 1000 words long, also
headed "Autobiographical Notes," dated 1896.
                              C4 89(50

vi                      PREFACE
     (4) A Narrative of his friendship with Charles Paine
Pauli which began in New Zealand in 1863 and lasted
until Pauli's death in 1897.
     (5) A Narrative of his friendship with myself which
lasted from 1876 until Butler's death in 1902.
     The great clearing-up which resulted in the final
editing of his Note-Books was extended to include his
correspondence. He had been in the habit of keeping
many of the letters he received, and also copies of many
which he wrote, and these also were used in making the
skeleton Diary. Soon after his father's death (1886) his
sisters gave him Dr. Butler's papers, and he began to
write his grandfather's Life. I suppose it must have been
at the same time that he became repossessed of his own
letters home written from school, from Cambridge, and
from New Zealand ; but some of these may have been
restored to him after his mother's death in 1873. There
are notes among the correspondence showing that he
destroyed freely. I found one specially interesting note,
dated 1901, stating that he had destroyed his original
letters home from the Colony, which formed the basis
of A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement. After Miss
Savage's death (1885) his letters to her were restored to
him, and again his notes show that he destroyed freely.
He says somewhere that he learnt more from writing The
Life of Dr. Butler than from writing all his other books ;
one of the things thus learnt was how to deal with an
accumulation of literary lumber.
    While he was occupied with this business he might
perhaps meet Garnett, or some other friend, who would
say : " Well, Mr. Butler, and what abstruse subject is now
engaging your attention? What new and paradoxical
work may we be expecting from your ingenious pen ? "
Then he would look demure and reply : "I am editing
my remains. I wish to leave everything in order for my
executors." Incidentally he left everything in order also
for his grateful biographer—the undestroyed notes in
duplicate, edited, dated, and indexed ; the undestroyed
correspondence edited, adnotated, and arranged in order
of date.

                          PREFACE                            vii
    It may appear as though all this labour of destroying,
preserving, copying, editing, indexing, and dating was
undertaken by Butler as a methodical preparation for his
own biography. It was not so. Here is a passage from
the published selection of Notes (p. 374) :
    People sometimes give me to understand that it is a piece of
ridiculous conceit on my part to jot down so many notes about
myself, since it implies a confidence that I shall one day be
regarded as an interesting person. I answer that neither I nor
they can form any idea as to whether I shall be wanted when I
am gone or no. The chances are that I shall not. I am quite
aware of it. So the chances are that I shall not live to be 85 ;
but I have no right to settle it so .... I prefer the modest
insurance of keeping up my notes which others may burn or no
as they please.
     He was not contemplating publication ; but neither
was he contemplating oblivion, as will appear from another
passage which occurs in the preface to vol. II. of the
manuscript Note-Books, and is reproduced on pp. 215 and
216 of the published selection. After saying that many
of his notes ought to have been destroyed, he proceeds :
    I know it, and I know that many a one of those who look
over this book—for that it will be looked over by not a few I
doubt not—will think me to have been a greater fool than I
probably was. I cannot help it.
     It was the same with his letters. He was naturally
tidy, and liked feeling that he was not dependent upon
some one else, possibly some one in whom he had no
 confidence, for knowing what he had written. There
was also the possibility of fire. So he bought a copying
 press and acquired the habit of writing in copying ink and
 pressing copies of his notes and of any letters he thought
 he might want to refer to. He also pressed a copy of
 whatever book he happened to be writing, and these
 pressed copies he kept in my chambers until it appeared
 proper to destroy them. But he did not keep copies of
his letters to Miss Savage or to intimate friends, unless in
the exceptional case of a letter containing an account of
 something he was likely to want. Such a letter might
never be wanted ; on the other hand it might, in which

viii                     PREFACE
case he could lay his hand upon it at any time. And if,
after his death, any one looking over his correspondence
should find therein a confirmation of the view which he
thought might be derived from looking over his manu
script notes—well, that again he could not help.
     I do not think it ever crossed Butler's mind that his
biography might be written by me. The reception of his
books in his lifetime was not such as to encourage him to
expect that it would ever be written by any one. In the
days when his relations with his father were causing him
anxiety, he used to laugh and say that if any one ever
took the trouble to write his life the following sentence
might come in useful as an opening : " The subject of
this Memoir was born of rich but dishonest parents."
This, however, was intended as a gibe at his father rather
than as a testamentary direction. It was not until within
the last few months of his life that I ever heard him speak
seriously of the possibility of his life being written, and
even then we hardly discussed the subject ; it was referred
to in the spirit of " unlikelier things have happened," and
not as he used to speak of the publication of his auto
biographical novel, which he always contemplated as some
thing that must certainly be done. It had often crossed
my mind that his life might have to be written, and I
had often wondered who would be a suitable person to
undertake it. The success of Erewhon Revisited, which
preceded, and the still greater success of The Way ofAll
Flesh, which followed his death, showed me that the
neglect from which he had suffered was passing away, and
that a biography of him would certainly be wanted ; and
then I saw that I should have to write it. The book
came to me, as he used to say his own books came to him,
and insisted on being written. The publication in 19 12
of The Note-Books of Samuel Butler .was a by-product; it
was a clearing of the ground for this Memoir, and helped
to solve the problem of dealing with the material.
     Many of the events of his life, the substance of many
of the notes, and the contents of many of the letters are
repeated several times for different purposes and in
different ways, and sometimes again in his published

                            PREFACE                              IX
 works. I do not mean that he contradicted himself, but
 the language differed, and he was not writing for publica
 tion ; accordingly what he wrote, though it suited the
 purpose he had in hand, did not necessarily suit my
 purpose. I should have been glad if I could always have
 used his words, but, this not being possible, I was com
 pelled to condense, to amplify, to omit, and sometimes to
 re-state entirely in language of my own. In determining
 the limits of permissible editing I found instructions for
 my guidance in his Note-Books :
                                  I
     I hope no one will publish my letters after I am dead ; they
 were always hasty, often insincere, and never intended for the
 public
                                 II
     I hope no one will ever collect my letters and publish them.
 I don't believe I ever wrote a letter in my life which I would
allow to be published if I could help it.
                                Ill
     Cursed be not he who moves my bones but he who prints my
letters which were never intended to be printed, and which should
have been thrown into the fire as soon as read.
     These three notes were not encouraging for a bio
grapher, and if I had found nothing more I should not
have proceeded with this Memoir. But in the course of
writing the Life of his grandfather, Butler reconsidered the
question and came to different conclusions, as will appear
from these three further notes :
                                IV
    Letters are like wine ; if they are sound they ripen with
keeping. A man should lay down letters as he lays down a cellar
of wine.
                                 V
    It is a mistake to think you are giving letters most faithfully
by printing them as they were written without the smallest altera
tion ; for you do not give the letters unless you reproduce their
environment, and this cannot be done. He who undertakes to

x                           PREFACE
edit letters undertakes to translate them from one set of surround
ings to other very different ones. It is the essence of a private
letter that the audience should be few and known to the
writer.     It is the essence, generally, of a published letter
that the audience should be large and unknown to the writer.
Few readers as much as even attempt to make allowance for
the fact that a published letter is no longer what it was when
the writer wrote it ; nine out of every ten will regard pub
lished letters as things intended by the writer to be seen as the
reader now sees them, whereas nothing was farther from his
intention, and very little would have been allowed to stand with
out alteration if the writer had had any idea that his or her letter
was going to be laid before the public. Granted that an editor
should, like a translator, keep as religiously close to the original
text as he reasonably can, and in every alteration should consider
what the writer would have wished and done if he or she could be
consulted, but subject to these limitations he should be free to
alter according to his discretion or indiscretion.
                                 VI
     It may be said that in my Life of Dr. Butler I have published
some letters indiscreetly, and others dishonourably, inasmuch as
the writer desired they should be destroyed. Again, I have
published letters that it was infra dignitatem on Dr. Butler's part
to have written, as for example when he implored his son to read
Parr's Preface to Bellenden for some hours before going in for
the Latin Prose Composition paper of the Classical Tripos
Examination. There are very few of these last, but if I had
found more I should have printed them. It is better that I
should be indiscreet and dishonourable than that men's true
minds should be concealed and turned again to falsehood, if we
have a chance of getting at them. It is next to never that we
can get at any man's genuine opinion on any subject, except the
weather or eating and drinking ; and when we can do so directly
or indirectly neither amour propre nor discretion should be allowed
to veil it, for there is nothing in this world so precious nor is
there any other stuff from which fresh genuine opinion can derive.
     And there is another note reproduced in the published
Note-Books, which I have often borne in mind :
    When a man is in doubt about this or that in his writing, it
will often guide him if he asks himself how it will tell a hundred
years hence.
      So much for the material which is in manuscript.

                         PREFACE                            xi
The autobiographical material which is in his published
books will be found chiefly in A First Tear in Canterbury
 Settlement, in the opening of Erewhon, in the Preface to
 the 1 90 1 edition of Erewhon, in the Memoir of John
 Pickard Owen which precedes The Fair Haven, in Un
 conscious Memory, in The Life and Letters of Dr. Samuel
 Butler, and in The Way of All Flesh.
      We may now pass to other sources which have con
 tributed to the writing of this Memoir.
      I wrote an obituary notice of Butler which appeared
 in December 1902 in The Eagle, the magazine of St. John's
 College, Cambridge. It was included with other notices
 of him in " Samuel Butler : Records and Memorials," a
 pamphlet which Mr. Richard Alexander Streatfeild (his
 literary executor) had printed for private circulation in
 1903. I revised my notice, and it appeared finally in
 1 913 prefixed to The Humour of Homer.
      In 1904 I had printed for private circulation a
 pamphlet : " Diary of a Journey through North Italy to
 Sicily in the Spring of 1903, undertaken for the purpose
 of leaving the MSS. of three books by Samuel Butler at
 Varallo-Sesia, Aci-Reale, and Trapani."
      In 191 1 Mr. (now Sir) Francis Darwin and I published
 through Mr. Fifield a pamphlet : " Charles Darwin and
 Samuel Butler : a Step towards Reconciliation," the result
 of a correspondence which had then recently taken place
 between us.
      I have made free use of these three pamphlets, and
 have repeated whole passages out of them in this book.
      It may be thought that I have been loose in the spelling
 of Italian names, especially of places. There is no settled
 spelling for some of them ; for instance, in Sicily one can
 find Acireale, AciReale, and Aci-Reale ; Pantellaria and
 Pantelleria. It is not a matter of any consequence, but it
 seemed better to warn the reader that there is probably
 some authority for the spelling adopted.
     Mr. R. A. Streatfeild has placed all Butler's papers at
 my disposal, and has given me such absolute freedom that
 I have felt as though I, and not he, were Butler's literary
 executor. Sir Francis Darwin has given me permission
     vol. 1                                            b

xii                     PREFACE
to print letters from his father and from himself, and has
treated me in all our dealings with a friendliness and
generosity which could not have been exceeded if there
had never been any difference between Charles Darwin
and Butler. I am indebted to Mrs. Creighton for per
mission to publish the letters of her late husband, the
Bishop of London ; and to Mr. Robert Bridges, Poet
Laureate, for permission to publish the extracts from his
letters which are necessary to explain Butler's letters to
him. Among others who have helped me in different
ways I thank particularly Miss Annie Charlotte Catharine
Aldrich, Mr. A. T. Bartholomew, the Rev. Dr. Bonney,
F.R.S., Mr. Alfred Emery Cathie, Mr. Edward Clodd,
the Rev. Cuthbert Creighton, Mr. E. J. Dent (of King's
College, Cambridge), Mr. R. W. K. Edwards, Mrs.
Fisher, Mr. Charles Gogin, the Hon. Mrs. Richard Cecil
Grosvenor, Mr. John F. Harris, Mr. E. S. P. Haynes,
Mr. Desmond MacCarthy, Mrs. Sydney Morse, Mr.
George Butler Lloyd, M.P., Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Fuller
Maitland, Mr. H. M. Paget, Mr. H. R. Robertson,
Professor G. S. Sale, Mr. George Bernard Shaw, Mr.
W. H. Triggs (Editor of The Press, Christchurch, New
Zealand), Miss Colborne-Veel (whose father was Editor
of The Press while Butler was writing in it), Mr. Emery
Walker, and Mr. Philip Worsley. Also I thank Mrs.
Allen, of the Metropolitan Typewriting Office, in Chancery
Lane, and her staff of lady typists for the accuracy and
business-like promptitude with which she and they have
done all the copying with which I have entrusted them.
     There are many others to whom I am grateful ; in
every case I have intended to express my obligation at
the moment of using their help. If I have anywhere
neglected to do so it is by inadvertence, for which I
apologise. But I do not think any such inadvertence will
be of much consequence. I know most of them person
ally, and I believe they all feel as the late Mr. Jason
Smith felt about Butler. He lent me the picture, " Mr.
Heatherley's Holiday," which Butler had bequeathed to
him, and gave me permission to have it reproduced for
this Memoir. At one of our interviews he expressed

                           PREFACE                             xiii
 a desire to pay the expenses of reproduction.                "If
 anything," he said, " is being done to preserve Sam's
 memory I should like to contribute." It would have
 been discourteous for me to refuse. Besides, it would
 not have been possible. He was entitled to make his
 own conditions as to the reproduction of his own picture.
 Accordingly, he paid Emery Walker's bill. 1 asked
 whether I might say that he had done so, and he desired
 me not to mention the fact. I battled with the tempta
 tion to disobey him, but could not subdue it. We shall
 meet " on lips of living men," but Butler will be there
 also ; and if Jason §mith attacks me with vicarious dis
 pleasure, Butler, I feel sure, will support me with vicarious
 approval.
      I also apologise for printing letters without having
 first obtained written permission. Whenever this has
 happened, permission had been given verbally or I con
 sidered that the circumstances justified me in assuming it.
 But this does not apply to Miss Savage's letters, which
 I have printed on my own responsibility. I made all
 possible enquiries, and failed to hear of any one who
 could give permission. I searched at Somerset House
 and found no trace of any legal personal representative.
 She lived with her parents, and if, as was probably the
 case, she left no estate, there was no reason why any one
 should take out probate or letters of administration.
 Technically, no doubt, I am incurring a risk ; but I do not
 think it is great, for I cannot imagine that any relation
 of hers who may read her letters will experience any
 feelings other than pride and delight. Moreover, any
 risk would be slight in comparison with the honour of
 being associated with her memory. Soon after her death
 Butler wrote these words :
     I have it in my power, and I am thankful to think of this, to
 leave a memorial of her, traced chiefly by her own hand, which
 will show what manner of woman she was ; but it is one which
cannot possibly be made public till I have long followed her.
     He was alluding to her correspondence, of which he
left a separate copy, edited, adnotated, and ready for

xiv                       PREFACE
publication one day in a volume by itself. Until that
day shall arrive this Memoir contains enough to give the
world some idea of the kindness, the wisdom, the humour,
and the loveableness of her whose portrait he has pre
sented to us under the name of Alethea Pontifex.
                                                  H. F. J.
    120 Ma1da Vale, W.,
       I %th June 1916.
                        POSTSCRIPT
Soon after the date written above six copies of this
Memoir, to be deposited in different places in case of fire,
were struck off from the type ; moulds were taken and
the type was distributed. It was not found practicable
to print six sets of the illustrations to accompany these
copies as, owing to the War, labour was scarce. The six
copies were stitched into paper wrappers and disposed of
as follows : one to the British Museum ; one to St. John's
College, Cambridge ; one to Sir Frederick Macmillan ;
one to Mr. A. T. Bartholomew ; one I kept for myself ;
and the sixth I intended for Streatfeild, but about that
time his health broke down and I postponed giving it to
him until he should be better. Soon after his death I
gave it to the Bodleian Library.
     The preliminary matter was kept standing in type ;
I am thus able to make a few alterations and additions
in the Bibliography and in the Lists of Illustrations, so as
to bring the statements therein made into accordance
with present facts; and in this postscript, first to make
a few corrections or amplifications ; and, secondly, to add
a record of what has happened since the events recorded
in Chapter xliii.
     First, as to the corrections and amplifications :
     The portrait of Buder which faces the opening of
Chapter iii. was made by the Rev. Douglas Yeoman
Blakiston.       It was identified in 1917 by a young
Cambridge friend, Morris Reynolds, to whom I was

                         PREFACE                       xiva
s\\ow\ng it; he had met the artist at Weimar in 191 1,
 and told me that his son was President of Trinity College,
 Oxford. 1 took an early opportunity of calling on the
  President, to whom I showed the drawing ; he confirmed
  the attribution and gave permission for me to have it
  reproduced—rather late, for I had already had it done,
  but he kindly overlooked that. He also gave me a
  cutting from The East Grinstead Observer of the 12 th
  September 1914—an obituary notice of his father, which
  I have given, with other papers, to St. John's College,
  Cambridge. It appears from this notice that Douglas
  Yeoman Blakiston was born in 1832 at Lymington,
  Hants. He was a student at the Royal Academy Schools
  and studied especially under W. Dobson, R.A. ; from
   1850 to 1865 he painted chiefly in London and St.
  Leonards and exhibited at the Royal Academy. It was
  during this period that he made the sketch of Butler,
  and I suppose it must have been in London that they
  met ; but the President could give me no information
  about this, never having heard his father mention Butler,
 just as I never heard Butler mention D. Y. Blakiston.
  In 1865 he entered at Downing College, Cambridge, was
  ordained in 1868, and in 1871 was presented to the
  living of East Grinstead. The President showed me an
  immense number of sketches of heads, men and women,
  made by his father ; he would have shown me, or would
 have been able to show me, an immense quantity more,
  for his father made a sketch of every one he met who
  would submit to the process, but many of them were lost
  in a fire which destroyed the vicarage house at East
  Grinstead in 1908. The President had no doubt that
  the words " D. Y. Blakiston fecit," which appear under
  the sketch, are in the handwriting of his father ; and
  I am certain that the words "Portrait of S. Butler,
  1854" were added by Butler in his own handwriting.
 The fire at the vicarage brought about the retirement of
  the Rev. D. Y. Blakiston ; he made several visits to the
  Continent, and it was while he was acting as English
 Chaplain at "Weimar that my friend Morris Reynolds
 met him. He died in 19 14.

 xiv*                   PREFACE
      I regret that I have not succeeded in finding any
 further particulars about James Ferguson who did the
 sketch of Butler playing Handel which faces the opening
 of Chapter ix. In the note on the sketch Butler speaks
 of him as deceased, and it is possible that he did not live
 to attain distinction.
      In Chapter vi. (p. 75) occurs this passage : " the
river Heathcote runs past Christchurch to the sea." In
 19 1 7 I made the acquaintance of a wounded New
 Zealand soldier, who told me that the river can no longer
be said to run ; it ran in Butler's time, but it is now
dried up. If I had written " used to run " there would
have been no occasion to refer to the matter, for in other
respects my account of Butler's journey from Lyttelton
to Christchurch is correct.
     In Chapter xx. (p. 367) I speak of a framed
reproduction of a sketch by Miss Elizabeth Thompson
(Lady Butler), entitled " Missed," as hanging in the hall
at Wilderhope. Butler's nephew, Harry Butler, assures
me that his aunt, Mrs. Bridges, and Lady Butler knew
each other at Ventnor, and that the picture which Lady
Butler gave to Mrs. Bridges, and which I saw in the hall
at Wilderhope, was not a reproduction of " Missed " ; it
was the original sketch for a different picture called
" Missing " which was hung in the Royal Academy in
1873, and was the first of Lady Butler's pictures to be
exhibited there. And this sketch was given to Harry
Butler by Mrs. Bridges in her lifetime.
     It is stated in Chapter xliii. (II. 434) that Butler's
translation of Hesiod's Works and Days has not yet been
published. This is still the fact, but I ought to add that
in 19 12, or thereabouts, the London County Council
Technical Schools applied for permission to print Butler's
" Seven Sonnets and a Psalm of Montreal," which Streat-
feild had had privately printed. They only proposed to
use Butler's work as material for printing lessons, not to
publish the result ; but Streatfeild and I did not wish the
sonnets to be printed under any other authority than his
or mine just at that moment, because they were to be
included in The Note-Books of Samuel Butler then about

                          PREFACE                          x\vc
to V>e published. But he offered them Butler's translation
 of the Works and Days and handed them a copy of it
 which he made in his own handwriting. They began to
 print it, and in April 1 9 1 9 the Secretary showed me what
 progress had been made and told me that he hoped the
 work would soon be completed. It is not to be published
 by them ; they propose to turn out only a few copies and
 they are not to be for sale.
      The Table " Analysis of the Sales of my Books, 28
 November 1899" (II. 311) carries the analysis down to
 November 1899. It is also given in The Note-Books of
 Samuel Butler, where I have added a note that Butler
 made no analysis of the sales of Shakespeare's Sonnets
 Reconsidered (1899), The Odyssey in English Prose (1900),
 or Erewhon Revisited (1901). I have recently found a
 paper in his handwriting analysing the sales for the period
 from Midsummer 1900 to Midsummer 1901, and this
 includes his book on the Sonnets and the translation of
 the Odyssey. It shows the cash balance against all the
 books down to Midsummer 1901 to be £1065:5:3,
 whereas the published analysis down to November 1899
 shows a cash balance against them to that date of only
 about £900.
      On the 6th of January 1902 Butler wrote to my sister
 Lilian, that his sonnet " Not on sad Stygian shore " was
 in The Athenaeum. Next day he wrote again that some one
 had written to The Athenaeum that " he wishes the right
 hand of the man who wrote my sonnet had been paralysed
 before he wrote it ! But he likes the last two lines " (II.
  361). Soon after this there appeared a book which, if I
 had known of it in time, would have been included in the
  Bibliography. It is entitled The Saxon Saga and other
  Poems, by William Turberville (Chapman & Hall, 1902).
 Among the other poems are "Three Sonnets on the
  Future Life suggested by X in The Athenaeum Jan. 4,
  1902." First he prints Butler's sonnet, which in The
  Athenaeum was signed X, then come his own three. They
  do not disclose any liking for the last two lines of Butler's
 sonnet, nevertheless their general tenour has made me
 wonder whether their author may not be the man who

 xiva1                   PREFACE
 wrote to The Athenaeum expressing the courteous wish that
 I have quoted above.
     And now to proceed with the record of events subse
 quent to 1916, which, of course, ought to be placed at the
 end of the book as the conclusion of Chapter xliii., but
 which, for reasons already given, could not be so placed.
                             1917
     On the 6th November Alfred's son, Alfred John
 Cathie, was killed in France.
                             1918
     During the winter of 1 917-18 I began to present to
St. John's College, Cambridge, all the pictures, sketches,
and drawings I had by or relating to Butler ; also all my
copies of his books—that is, the first editions given to me
by him and all subsequent editions; also such of the
books formerly his property as had come into my pos
session ; also all the books and magazines containing
allusions to him or articles about him or about his subjects
which I had collected ; also all his maps and music ; also all
loose photographs, newspaper-cuttings, and other docu
ments relating to him or formerly his property. I also
gave to St. John's his table, paint-box, and other objects
of personal use. Butler had bequeathed all his personal
objects to Alfred, but such as Alfred did not want I
bought from him soon after Butler's death.
    "When I told Alfred that I was giving my pictures to
St. John's he said that he had fifteen and was nervous
about them because he lives in Canal Road, Mile End,
which is on the route taken by the German air-raiders,
and he wanted to have them in a place of safety. So it
was arranged that I should buy them from him. But he
desired to give two himself ; accordingly I only bought
thirteen, which, with Alfred's two, are now at St. John's
and will be included in the catalogue of the collection now
forming there, instalments of which have already appealed
in The Eagle for March and June 191 8 and for June 19 19.
     On the 13th March 19 18 Butler's surviving sister,

                          PREFACE                          xiv*
Harriet Fanny, widow of George Lovibond Bridges, R.N.,
 d1ed at Wilderhope House, Shrewsbury. Thus was re
 moved the chief obstacle to the publication of this Memoir ;
 but, owing to the War, there was at the moment a further
 difficulty caused by the shortage of paper.
                              1919
      On the 6th February 1919 Richard Alexander Streat-
  feild died having by his will bequeathed to me all copy
 rights in books written by Butler and in all illustrations
 therein, and all his copies of such books, and all drawings,
 paintings, and books which formerly belonged to Butler.
       Butler during his lifetime sometimes discussed with
  me what would happen after his death and how to pro
 vide for the continued management of his books. The
  assumption was that, as I was about sixteen years his junior,
 I should survive him ; but he wanted some one who had
 experience with publishers, and for this we agreed that
  I was no good. Streatfeild had in Butler's eyes the
 recommendation of having already induced a firm to
 publish books written by him without himself having to
 spend any money on them—a thing which Butler had failed
 to do until he had been before the public about thirty years.
 But not only must the person who undertook the office
 be a man of business, he ought also to be some one who
 would be likely to get on well with me, because it would
 be necessary for him to consult with me. At the time
 Butler was re-making his will on his death-bed he told me
 that he thought Streatfeild was about the best man we
 knew for the purpose. Streatfeild had helped him the
 year before with the proofs of Erewhon Revisited and of
 the new edition of Erewhon, while 1 was away. He had
 done all that was wanted very well, and moreover Butler
 had found him to be, as indeed he was, " a very engaging
person" {post, II. 341). I agreed that no better choice
could be made. They discussed the matter and so it was
arranged.
      A few days after Butler's death Streatfeild and I were
talking about what there was to be done, and I said :

xiv/                      PREFACE
     " And then you know, there's the Pontifex novel ;
but of course that can't be published yet."
     " Why not ? " inquired Streatfeild.
     " Because of his sisters," I replied.
     " What have his sisters got to do with me ? I don't
know them."
     I was at the time still dazed by Butler's recent death
and had not begun to foresee the many changes that
would necessarily follow. During the lifetime of his
father he always used to say : "As soon as my father
dies I will publish my novel." Then when his father did
die he returned from the funeral saying : " I cannot do it.
I cannot publish that novel so long as my sisters are alive."
This he continued to say all the rest of his life, and I
became thoroughly familiarised with the idea that the bar
to publication was the continued existence of his two
sisters. And yet I knew quite well that one of his
reasons for appointing Streatfeild his literary executor was
precisely this, that as Streatfeild did not know the sisters,
therefore he need not wait for them to die. I had to
make an effort before I could realise that the bar was
removed as completely by Butler's death as it would have
been if his sisters had predeceased him.
     In the Note prefixed to The Way of All Flesh (1903)
Streatfeild says that on his death-bed Butler clearly gave
him to understand that he wished the book to be published
in its present form. I was able to help partly by identify
ing some of the missing fourth and fifth chapters. I had
a pressed copy of the MS., which Butler used to keep in
my chambers in case of fire, and this copy, although
rather illegible, was nevertheless of some use. I handed
it to Streatfeild, who, I believe, destroyed it after the novel
had appeared ; I half remember his telling me so—at any
rate, it was not with his papers. Of course I also helped
with the proofs, and Streatfeild wished to acknowledge
my assistance in his Note, but I would not let him mention
me because I did not wish the sisters to know that I had
had anything to do with bringing out the book. It is quite
likely, however, that they guessed.
     The publication of the novel was not the only duty

                           PREFACE                        xivg
that fell to Streatfeild. In the Bibliography will be found
mentioned all the new editions and re-issues of Butler's
works brought out since his death ; these were all edited
and seen through the press by Streatfeild. Some of the
 books have sold rapidly, others slowly, and Streatfeild's
 policy was to make those that sold well pay for those that
sold badly. If a table were now to be made out of the
sales of Butler's books since his death it would no
longer support what he wrote about the table of 1899
that his " public appears to be a declining one." That
he is very much more widely read now than he was at
 the time of his death is largely because of the skilful
 management of his affairs by Streatfeild, to whose un
 selfish devotion to his memory all true Erewhonians owe
a debt of gratitude. For myself I am pleased to have
 this opportunity of recording my grateful thanks to him.
 We were, of course, thrown very much together, and I
 was always thankful that Butler had been so happily
 inspired as to choose for his literary executor one with
 whom I was able to collaborate in such complete harmony.
       In the prefaces to his books Butler acknowledges his
 obligations to those who helped him and among others to
 me ; but in Alps and Sanctuaries he refers to me in a
 manner which I venture to think extravagant. He there
 commits himself to the statement that he might almost
 say that the book is as much mine as his. I always con
 sidered these words to be an illustration of his passion for
 doing things thoroughly ; Streatfeild, however, with a
 delicate kindness which I can never forget, chose to take
 them quite literally and to make them the excuse for
 giving to me the MS. of Alps and Sanctuaries, with all
 the original illustrations, except a few which had been lost
 or, perhaps, given away. After his death I gave the MS.
 and the illustrations to St. John's College, Cambridge.
 It seemed the right place, partly because many of Butler's
 sketches in oils and water-colour from which some of the
 drawings for the book had been made were already there.
      It is stated in Chapter xliii. that the MSS. of Butler's
books have been nearly all given away. That was in
19 1 6. The MSS. of the published works not already

 x\vh                    PREFACE
 given away which came to me on Streatfeild's death
 were :
     (1) The Way of All Flesh, which I have given to the
 British Museum because Streatfeild and I, remembering
 how much he used the Museum and that the greater part
 of the book was actually written in the Reading Room,
 agreed that he would have wished it to go there. With
 the MS. I found what I suppose to be a discarded title-
 page in which the motto was not the verse from the
 Epistle to the Romans ultimately adopted but the French
 proverb : " Quand on fait des ommelettes il faut croquer
des oeufs." This form was the one employed by Madame,
and there is a pencil correction substituting for " croquer "
the more usual word " casser " ; but he left " ommelettes "
so spelt. I put this with the MS., and also the MS. of
the Addenda and the Chronology which are printed in
Appendix D to this Memoir.
     (2) Shakespeare's Sonnets Reconsidered. As Streatfeild
gave me Alps and Sanctuaries, so he appropriated this MS.
for himself. It has now gone to the Library of Congress,
Washington, U.S.A.
     (3) Luck or Cunning? which I have given to the
Bodleian Library, Oxford.
     (4) A pressed copy of the MS. of The Authoress of
the Odyssey, which, with Alfred's concurrence, I have given
to the Library of McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
The original MS. is at Trapani, as is mentioned else
where. I say " with Alfred's concurrence " because on
this pressed copy is a note in Butler's handwriting :
"Given by me to Alfred, Nov. 17, 1897. S. B." Not
understanding why, if it was Alfred's, it should be among
Streatfeild's papers, I consulted Alfred, who remembered
that he and Butler had pressed it together in Butler's
chambers in Clifford's Inn, Alfred turning the screw
because he was the stronger. He took a fancy to the
copy and asked Butler to give it to him, which he did.
But presently Alfred came to the conclusion that he did
not want to be bothered with it and, on Butler's death,
let Streatfeild take it with the other papers. From his
account it seemed that he had treated the matter rather

                           PREFACE                           xiv/
 as he treated the question of the ultimate disposal of
 Butler's ashes (II. xlii.). I pointed out to him that the
  copy still bore the note in Butler's handwriting, and he
  replied : " Oh very well, Sir, if it's mine I give it to you."
  I sent with the pressed copy to Canada a note recording
  these facts and signed by both Alfred and myself.
        I should have liked to give to Montreal a MS. of
  A Psalm of Montreal (I. 218), but I had already given the
  only copy I had to the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge,
  and this pressed copy of The Authoress was the most
  suitable thing of Butler's which I could find for the city
  in which the brother-in-law of Mr. Spurgeon's haberdasher
  used to season the skins of Canadian owls.
        Besides these four MSS. I found a chronology for
  Erewhon and Erewhon Revisited which Butler made while
  writing the latter book, and this I have given to the
  British Museum because they already had the MSS. of
  both those books.
       The documents referred to in the sentence " All his
  other papers and MSS. are with Streatfeild " in Chapter
  xliii. are now with me. They include the MSS. of two
  of the items published in Essays on Life, Art and Science
  (afterwards called The Humour of Homer), namely,
 "Thought and Language" and "The Aunt, the Nieces,
 and the Dog " (including the original letters). There
 are also the MSS. of several Essays and Lectures, the
 substance of which would, no doubt, on examination,
 be found to have been incorporated in some of the
 published books ; several miscellaneous unfinished MSS.
 which appear to be first writings for some of the books ;
 and his MS. translation of the Works and Days of Hesiod.
       Of his unpublished, or partly published, work I have
 the original MS. Note-Books, together with the pressed
 copy which he used to keep in my chambers in case of
 fire, and a second pressed copy which is not so legible as
 the first. The MSS. of the published Note-Books are at
 St. John's 'College.
      Under the heading of unpublished or partly published
works—or perhaps under the heading of MS. Note-
Books—should be included the notes which he collected

xiv/                     PREFACE
for his projected sequel to Alps and Sanctuaries. They
are very rough, and, having been made for his own
personal use, are scarcely comprehensible to an outsider ;
nevertheless I was able to include some few of them in
the division headed " Material for a projected Sequel to
Alps and Sanctuaries " in the published Note-Books.
    The three MSS. of this Memoir in its three states of
writing I intend to give to St. John's College, Cambridge,
where are already the originals of such of the illustrations
in this book as were in my possession. I would suggest
to any reader of these lines who may have for disposal,
by will or otherwise, a sketch or a MS. by Butler that he
might consider the propriety of giving it to St. John's.
But I put forward this suggestion with a hesitation which
will be understood when I have made a confession.
    A short while ago an American firm of " Importers
and Dealers in Fine Arts " wrote to me that they were
interested in securing a good autograph letter of Samuel
Butler. " We would be glad to have you send us two or
three of your best letters on approval, quoting prices ; as
soon as we receive same we will look over them and
return the ones we cannot use by the next post." This
surprising proposition put me into a difficulty, and I did
not know how to treat it. I might have been tempted
to shift the responsibility by placing the matter before the
Lord " according to Carey's plan " (I. 309). But Buder,
in his efforts to undermine my spiritual and moral nature
(I. 289), had succeeded in shaking my faith in the efficacy
of prayer. I recognised, therefore, that anything in the
nature of tossing up would not do ; I must think the
matter out for myself.
    In the first place, money is always welcome ; but
there are various ways of getting it, some honourable,
some dishonourable. How could I allow it to be said
that I had prostituted the sacred emotions of friendship ?
Could I sink to the level of those who make a living
by following courses which I had been brought up to
consider disreputable, if not actually criminal ? Would
it not be worse than either—would it not be sacrilege to,
turn to base uses Butler's private letters to me ?

                             PREFACE                    .   xiv*
     Suddenly the room seemed to become full of a great
 radiance, and like Mr. Dunkett meditating on rat-traps
 (I. 436) I heard a voice from heaven saying :
      " Why, my dear old man, to hear you talk any one
 would think you had been robbing a bank."
      Then I saw my way. It may not have been Butler's
 voice, but the speech was as much in his manner as
 Alethea's speeches in The Way of All Flesh are in Miss
 Savage's. So, murmuring to myself :
              'Tis better to be vile than vile esteem'd
              When not to be receives reproach of being
 I looked out half-a-dozen of his letters and submitted
 them to one of our leading London autograph-experts for
 his advice, telling him that, so far as I knew, no MS. of
 Butler's had yet been sold. Two of the letters were
 about Shakespeare's Sonnets ; I had included them
 because the MS. of Butler's book on the Sonnets was
 even then on its way to Washington. These two letters
 specially interested my expert ; he thought he could
 " use " them, and offered to buy them himself, at his own
 valuation, in case they should be refused by the proposing
 purchasers. I replied that I might be able to satisfy him
 in other ways as I had other letters and MSS. which he
 might equally be able to " use "— having smelt blood
 I was becoming greedy—and I told him that some of
 them related to Homer.              " If you are interested in
 Shakespeare," I said, "perhaps you are also interested
 in Homer." He thought he was—unless it was Horace ;
 if I would take a chair he would make sure. Somewhat
 bewildered I took his chair and waited.
      Here was a strange vista ! I saw myself taking up
 the literary problem thus suddenly adumbrated and start
 ing a book on the lines of The Authoress of the Odyssey
 to prove that Homer did not write the Odes of Horace.
 Of course he could not really see more likeness between
 them than the Blessed Bernardino Caimi really saw
between the geographical features of Varallo-Sesia and
Jerusalem. I knew that. Nevertheless people do see
unexpected resemblances. When one comes to think of

xiv/                     PREFACE
it there is poetry in Homer ; and there is also, moreover,
poetry in Horace ; and there are hexameters in both ;
besides which both begin with H, however much their
respective godfathers and godmothers would have been
astonished to hear it.
    At this point my expert returned saying that the
matter did not press, meaning, as I understood him, that
the gentleman in his office who was proof against
superficial resemblances objected to being disturbed at
his luncheon. So I thanked him for his opinion on the
value of the autographs and withdrew.
    On returning home the first thing that I did was to
write to the Transatlantic Importers and Dealers in Fine
Arts with the terms on which I was willing to sell to
them some of Butler's letters. This being so, and the
negotiations not yet concluded, I cannot urge people to
give to St. John's anything which might be convertible
into American gold. Here again the matter does not
press ; at least, I hope it does not press if it is to turn on
anything of Butler's passing to St. John's under the will
of a friendly reader.
     I do not believe that this Memoir contains any passage
written by Butler or by myself which could cause pain to
any living person ; but I know that the same passage will
produce different effects on different readers. One cannot
please every one, nor could I lend the six advance copies
round among all those whom it might concern and, before
publication, make alterations in accordance with their
suggestions. If I have offended it is by inadvertence ;
and I beg that any one who may feel hurt will accept this
apology and remember that I have done something which
may be taken as a guarantee of good faith. It was
because the book contains passages which would certainly
have offended Mrs. Bridges and Miss Butler that I
delayed its publication until they were no longer here to
read them.
                                                   H. F. J.
    120 Ma1da Vale, W.,
       zyti May 1919.

                    CONTENTS
                                                        PAGt
 A Short B1bl1ography of the Wr1t1ngs of Samuel Butler
     and of the Books and Art1cles concern1ng h1m .      xxi
                      CHAPTER I
                          1 580-1835
Fam1ly H1story                                             1
                       CHAPTER II
                          1835-1845
Early L1fe and Rem1n1scences                              18
                      CHAPTER III
                          1846-1854
AlXESLEY AND SHREWSBURY         ....                 .3'
                      CHAPTER IV
                          1854-1859
Cambr1dge .      •                                        45
                       CHAPTER V
                          1858-1859
Heresy      -                                             58
    vol. 1                     xv                     c

  xvi                   CONTENTS
                       CHAPTER VI
                           1859-1860
                                                    PACE
  A First Year /n Canterbury Settlement ...           70
                      CHAPTER VII
                           1861-1864
  Mesopotam1a                                         86
                      CHAPTER VIII
                           1864-1870
  London and The Ev1dence for the Resurrect1on  -    112
                       CHAPTER IX
                           1870-1871
  Study1ng Art                                   .13;
                       CHAPTER X
                              1872
  Erewhon                                            149
                       CHAPTER XI
                          1873—Part I
v  The Fa1r Haven                                    172
                      CHAPTER XII
                         1873—Part U
  "O Speculat1on! Horr1d F1end''                     195
                      CHAPTER XIII
                           1S74-1875
   "Mr. Hf.atherley's Hol1day" and Canada .   .   .211

                       CONTENTS                  xvii
                     CHAPTER XIV
                           1876
                                                  PAGX   j.
The Offspr1ng or the Erewhon1an Mach1nes   .   .  228
                     CHAPTER XV
                          1877
L1fe aiti> J./ab1t                                246  v
                    CHAPTER XVI
                          1878
Invest1gat1ng Evolut1on                           267   u
                   CHAPTER XVII
                          1879
Evolut1on Old and New                        .    293
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                          1880
Unconsc1ous Memory                               -22
                   CHAPTER XIX
                         1881
Alps and Sanctuartes                             349
                    CHAPTER XX
                         1882
New Ed1t1on of Evolut1on Old and New   . .   .   366
                   CHAPTER XXI
                         1883
Wr1t1ng Mus1c                                    382

xviii                CONTENTS
                   CHAPTER XXII
                      1884.—Part I
                                           FACE
Select1ons from Prev1ous Works             403
                  CHAPTER XXIII
               1884—Part II.  1885— Part I
Gavottes, M1nuets, Fugues, etc.            419

                 ILLUSTRATIONS
Portrait of Samuel Butler, from the oil-painting by himself
     (1878) now at St. John's College, Cambridge .       . Frontispiece
                                                             TO TACT. PAGE
Portrait of Samuel Butler (1854), from a pencil drawing by
     D. Y. Blakiston, found among Butler's papers, now at St.
     John's College, Cambridge       .    .    .    .     .             31
Portrait of Samuel Butler, from a photograph, about 1858 .         .    45
Portrait of Samuel Butler, from a photograph lent by the Rev.
      Dr. T. G. Bonney, F.R.S. The negative was probably
     made in 1859, shortly before Butler went to New Zealand            58
Butler's Homestead, Mesopotamia, N.Z. From a drawing, now
     at St. John's College, Cambridge, made by H. F. Jones from
     a photograph .........                                             86
Portrait of Samuel Butler (about 1866), from a drawing by James
      Ferguson, found among Butler's papers, now at St. John's
      College, Cambridge        .    .    .     .    .     .       .132
"Mr. Heatherley's Holiday" (1874), from the oil-painting by
      Butler now in the Tate Gallery       .    .    .     .        .211
Corner of Butler's sitting-room at 15 Clifford's Inn (1865),
      from the oil-sketch by Butler, now at St. John's College,
      Cambridge      .........                                        246
Facsimile of a Letter from Butler to Henry M. Paget (Feb. 3,
       1880)                                                           322
View from Butler's window (1882), from the oil-sketch by H. F.
      Jones, now at St. John's College, Cambridge .        .        .  366
Side of Butler's sitting-room, showing piano, from a photograph
      taken by Butler                                                 419
                                   nx


A SHORT BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE WRITINGS
     OF SAMUEL BUTLER AND OF THE BOOKS
     AND ARTICLES CONCERNING HIM
    [Note.—The following bibliography is not intended to be exhaustive ; further
particulars will be found in the Memoir. In the ease of some books Buder
ehanged his publisher before the stock was used up ; the sheets were then
transferred to the new publisher and eaneel-titles substituted to show the
change. As to Butler's relations with his publishers see the Memoir, I. 294.
Mr. Fifield now publishes Butler's books. When no plaee of publieation is
mentioned London may be assumed.]
                                      1835
                     Samuel Butler born, December 4.
                                      1858
On English Composition and Other Matters. In The Eagle (a maga
        zine written and edited by members of St. John's College,
        Cambridge), Vol. I., No. 1, Lent Term, 1858.
             This essay is believed to be the first composition by Samuel
         Butler that appeared in print. It is reprinted, together with
         various other early writings of Butler's Cambridge and New
         Zealand days, in A First Year (1914).
                                    1862-3
  Darwin on the Origin of Species : a Dialogue. In The Press, N.Z.,
         for 20th December 1862.
             This Dialogue was followed by a correspondenee in The Press,
         to which Butler contributed. See A First Tear (1914), pp.
         149-178.
                                     1863
  A First Year in Canterbury Settlement. Longmans. Pp. x + 162.
         MS. lost.
  Darwin among the Machines. In The Press, N.Z., for June 13, 1863.
        Sec A First Tear (1914), pp. 179-185.
                                     1864
 Note on The Tempest, Act 1n. Sc. i. In Literary Foundlings.           Christ-
       church, N.Z., 1864. See Memoir, Vol. I. p. 102.

xxii                     BIBLIOGRAPHY
                                   1865
The Evidence for the Resurrection of Jesus Christ as contained in'
     the Four Evangelists critically examined. (Privately printed.)
     Pp. viii + 48. MS. lost. The substance of this pamphlet was
     reproduced in The Fair Haven.
Lucubratio Ebria. In The Press, N.Z., for July 29, 1865. See
      A First Year (1914), pp. 186-194.
                                   1872
Erewhon, or Over the Range. Trllbner. Pp. viii + 246. MS. at
      the British Museum.
Erewhon. Second edition, revised and corrected. Trllbner. Pp.
      xii + 244. All subsequent editions of Erewhon up to that of 1901
      are reprints of the second.
                                   1873
The Fair Haven : a Work in Defence of the Miraculous Element in
      Our Lord's Ministry upon Earth, both as against Rationalistic
      Impugners and certain Orthodox Defenders, by the late John
      Pickard Owen ; with a Memoir of the Author by William
      Bickersteth Owen. Trllbner. Pp. [viii] + 248. MS. at Christ-
      ehurch, New Zealand.
The Fair Haven. Second edition, disclosing Butler's authorship.
      Trllbner. Pp. ix + 248.
Erewhon translated into Dutch by P. G. van Schermbeek. Nijmegen.
                                1878 [1877]
Life and Habit : an Essay after a Completer View of Evolution.
      Dated 1878, but actually issued December 4, 1877. Trllbner.
      Pp. [x]+ 307. MS. at the Schools, Shrewsbury.
                                    1878
 Life and Habit. Second edition. Trllbner. Pp. [x] + 307.
 A Psalm of Montreal. In The Spectator for May 18, 1878.
                                    1879
 Evolution Old and New : a Comparison of the Theories of Buffon,
      Dr. Erasmus Darwin, and Lamarck with that of Charles Darwin.
       Hardwicke & Bogue. Pp. xii + 384. MS. at the Fitzwilliam
       Museum, Cambridge.
 A Clergyman's Doubts : a series of letters in The Examiner. MS. lost.
 God the Known and God the Unknown : a series of articles in The
       Examiner. MS. lost.
 Erewhon translated into German by J. D. Leipzig.

                         BIBLIOGRAPHY                             xxiii
                                   1880
Uneonscious Memory : a comparison between the Theory of Dr.
     Ewald Hering, Professor of Physiology at the University of Prague,
     and The Philosophy of the Unconscious, by Dr. Edward von Hart-
      mann ; with translations from these authors, and preliminary
      chapters bearing on Life and Habit, Evolution Old and New, and
      Mr. Charles Darwin's edition of Dr. Krause's Erasmus Darwin.
      David Bogue. Pp. viii + 288. MS. at the University Library,
      Cambridge.
                               1882 [1881]
Alps and Sanctuaries of Piedmont and the Canton Ticino ; illustrated
      by the Author, Charles Gogin, and Henry Festing Jones. David
      Bogue. Pp. viii + 376. MS. and original drawings at St. John's
      College, Cambridge.      Dated 1882, but actually published in
      November 1881. Some copies were issued with the words
      " Second Edition " on the title-page.
                                   1882
Evolution Old and New. Second edition, with a short Preface
      alluding to the recent death of Charles Darwin, an Appendix, and
      an Index. David Bogue. Pp. xii + 430. MS. of the additional
      matter at the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge.
                                   1884
 Selections from Previous Works. With A Psalm of Montreal and
       Remarks on G.J. Romanes' Mental Evolution in Animals. TrUbner.
       Pp. viii + 325. "Second Edition." Longmans. 1890. Now
       out of print.
                                   1885
 Gavottes, Minuets, Fugues, and other short pieces for the Piano, by
       Samuel Butler and Henry Festing Jones. Novello. Pp. [iv] + 32.
       MS. at St. John's College, Cambridge.
                                  [1886]
 Holbein's "La Danse." A Note on a drawing in the Museum at
       Basel. TrUbner. Printed on a card. Another ed., [1889].
                               1887 [1886]
 Luck or Cunning as the main means of Organic Modification ? An
       attempt to throw additional light on Charles Darwin's Theory of
       Natural Selection. TrUbner. Pp. xii + 328. MS. at the Bodleian
       Library, Oxford. Dated 1887, but actually published in
       November 1886.
                                    1888
 Ex Voto : an account of the Sacro Monte or New Jerusalem at
       Varallo-Sesia. With some notice of Tabachetti's remaining work
       at Crea, and illustrations from photographs by the Author.
       TrUbner. Pp. xiv + 277. MS. at Varallo-Sesia.

xxiv                       BIBLIOGRAPHY
Narcissus : a Cantata in the Handelian form. Words and Music by
      Samuel Butler and Henry Festing Jones. Weekes. Pp. [viii] +
      1 80. MS. of the pianoforte score at the British Museum ; that
     of the orchestral score with H. F. Jones.
                                  1888-1890
Quis Desiderio . . . ? and other papers contributed to The Universal
     Review. See Memoir, Vol. I. p. xiv/", Vol. II. p. 101.
                                     1892
The Humour of Homer : a Lecture delivered at the Working Men's
     College, Great Ormond Street. Reprinted, with preface and
     additional matter, from The Eagle. Cambridge : Metcalfe. Pp.
     vii + 43.
                                     1893
L' Origine Siciliana dell' Odissea. Extracted from the Rassegna delta
     LetteraturaSiciliana. Aci-Reale. Pp. 22. See Memoir, Vol. II. p. 156.
On the Trapanese Origin of the Odyssey. Translated, with addi
     tions, and reprinted from The Eagle. Cambridge : Metcalfe.
     Pp. 24+13.
                                     1894
Ancora sull' origine Siciliana dell' Odissea. Extracted from the
     Rassegna della Letteratura Siciliana. Aci-Reale. Pp. 26.
Ex Voto translated into Italian by Angelo Rizzetti. Novara.
                                     1895
Articles by Butler about his Odyssey theories appeared in The Italian
     Gazette, published in Florence under the editorship of Miss Helen
     Zimmern.
                                     1896
The Life and Letters of Dr. Samuel Butler [his grandfather], in so far
     as they illustrate the scholastic, religious, and social life of
     England from 1790 to 1840. 2 vols. John Murray. Vol. I.
      Pp. xiv + 14 + 391. Vol. II. Pp. vii + 404. Now out of print.
     MS. given by Butler to the town of Shrewsbury.
                                     1897
The Authoress of the Odyssey, where and when she wrote, who she was,
     the use she made of the Iliad, and how the poem grew under her
     hands. Longmans. Pp. xvi + 275. MS. at Trapani, Sicily. A pressed
     copy of the MS. is in the Library of McGill University, Montreal.
                                     1898
The Iliad rendered into English prose for the use of those who cannot
     read the original. Longmans. Pp. xvi + 421. MS. at St. John's
      College, Cambridge.
                                     1899
Shakespeare's Sonnets reconsidered andin part rearranged. With introduc
      tory chapters, notes, and a reprint of the original 1 609 edition. Long
     mans. Pp. xii + 328. MS. at the Library of Congress, Washington.

                          BIBLIOGRAPHY                              xxv
                                    1900
The Odyssey rendered into English prose for the use of those who
     cannot read the original. Longmans. Pp. xv + 326. MS. at
    Aci-Reale, Sicily.
                                    1901
Erewhon. New and revised edition. Grant Richards. Pp. xviii + 324.
    MS. at the British Museum.
Erewhon Revisited twenty years later, both by the Original Discoverer
    of the Country and by his Son. Grant Richards. Pp. xi+338.
    MS. at the British Museum. A pressed copy of the MS. containing
    alterations in Butler's handwriting is with Mr. Grant Richards.
Erewhon after thirty years. Review of Erewhon Revisited and Erewhon
    (new edition), by T. E. Page in The Bookman for December 1901.
    With a portrait by Russell & Sons taken specially for this article.
                                    1902
Samuel Butler and his Work. Article in What's What by Harry
    Quilter. This appeared in Butler's lifetime.
                      Samuel Butler died, June 18.
Samuel Butler. By R. A. Streatfeild. In The Monthly Review for
    September.
Samuel Butler, author of Erewhon. An obituary notice by H. F.
    Jones in The Eagle, December. With a reproduction of a photo
    graph of Butler taken by Pizzetta at Varallo in 1889. This
    portrait is repeated in Streatfeild's Records and Memorials (1903) ;
    also in The Humour of Homer (1913); and at the opening of
    chap- xxvii. of this Memoir.
                                   1903
The Way of All Flesh : a Novel. Edited by R. A. Streatfeild. Grant
    Richards. Pp. v + 424.. MS. at the British Museum.
Samuel Butler : Records and Memorials. A collection of obituary
    notices, with a note by R. A. Streatfeild. (Privately printed.)
    Cambridge. Pp. [iv] + 57. The notices had appeared in 1902
    1n the following publications :
        The Times (London), June 20.
         II Corriere Valsesiano (Varallo-Sesia), June 28.
        The Athenaeum (London), by Vernon Rendall, June 28.
        // Monte Rosa (Varallo-Sesia), July 12.
         Quo Vadis? (Trapani), July 12.
         Nuova Antologia (Rome), July 16.
        The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand), by O. T. J. Alpers,
    July 28.
        The Monthly Review (London), by R. A. Streatfeild, September.
        Que Vadis ? (Trapani), September 7.
        The Eagle (Cambridge), by H. F. Jones, December.

 xxvi                    BIBLIOGRAPHY
 Review at The Way of All Flesh by Professor Sale of Otago University.
      In The Press, N.Z., for November 18, 1903.
                                  1904.
Essays on Life, Art, and Science. Reprints of some of the papers
     contributed to The Universal Review, 1888-1890; together with
     two Lectures not previously published. Grant Richards. Pp.
      xii + 340.
Seven Sonnets and A Psalm of Montreal. [With a translation into
      Homeric verse of a passage from Martin Chuzzlewit, first published
     in The Eagle, March 1894; and Ingroja's Italian rendering of " Not
     on sad Stygian shore."] (Privately printed.) Cambridge. Pp.15.
Ulysses : an Oratorio.      Words written and Music composed by
      Samuel Butler and Henry Festing Jones. Weekes. Pp. viii +
    .121. MS. of the pianoforte score at the British Museum ; that
     of the orchestral score with H. F. Jones.
Diary of a Journey through North Italy to Sicily in the Spring of
      1903, undertaken for the purpose of leaving the manuscripts of
     three books by Samuel Butler at Varallo-Sesia, Aci-Reale, and
     Trapani. By Henry Festing Jones. (Privately printed.) Cam
     bridge. Pp. 56. With a reproduction of Gogin's portrait of
     Butler, repeated at the opening of chap. xxxv. of this Memoir.
The Author of Erewhon. By Desmond MacCarthy. In The Inde
     pendent Review for September.
                                1907-10
Extracts from the Note-Books of Samuel Butler in The New Quarterly.
           j
                                  1908
Erewhon. Reprint of New and revised edition (1901). Fifield.
LucK or Cunning ? Reissue. Fifield.
The Authoress of the Odyssey. Reissue. Fifield.
The Odyssey rendered into English prose. Reissue. Fifield.
Erewhon Revisited. Reprint. Fifield.
The Way of All Flesh. Second edition. Fifield.
Essays on Life, Art, and Science. Reprint. Fifield.
Samuel Butler. In The Times Literary Supplement for October 8, 1908.
                                  1909
Ex Voto. Reissue. Fifield.
God the Known and God the Unknown. The 1879 articles reprinted
     from The Examiner in book form, with a prefatory note by R. A.
     Streatfeild. Fifield. Pp. 91.

                         BIBLIOGRAPHY                               xxvii
                                   1910
Life and Habit. New edition, with Preface by R. A. Streatfeild,
     and Author's addenda. Fifield. Pp. x + 310.
Unconscious Memory. New edition, with a Note by R. A. Streat
     feild and an Introduction by Professor Marcus Hartog. Fifield.
     Pp. xxx vii + 186.
The Iliad rendered into English prose. Reissue. Fifield.
Shakespeare's Sonnets reconsidered. Reissue. Fifield.
Samuel Butler. Article (unsigned) in The Encyclopaedia Britannica,
      nth edition. Cambridge.
Samuel Butler. Par Jean Blum. In Mercure de France for July 16,
      1910.
Sicily and the Albergo Samuele Butler : or the Fiction of Chronology.
      By Israel Zangwill. In Italian Fantasies. William Heinemann.
                                   19 1 1
Evolution Old and New. New edition, with author's revisions and
     prefatory note by R. A. Streatfeild. Fifield. Pp. xvi + 430.
Darwin among the Machines (1863) and Lucubratio Ebria (1865)
     reprinted in The Press, N.Z., for May 25, 191 1. This jubilee
     number of The Press also contains an account of Butler's con
     nection with the paper.
Charles Darwin and Samuel Butler : a Step towards Reconciliation.
      By Henry Festing Jones. Fifield. Pp. 28.
Essays on Two Moderns : Euripides and Samuel Butler. By W. H.
     Salter. Sidgwick & Jackson. Pp. 69 to 93.                       »
                                   1912
The Note-Books of Samuel Butler. Selections arranged and edited
     by Henry Festing Jones. With a reproduction of a photograph
     of Butler taken by Alfred Emery Cathie in .1898, repeated at the
     opening of chap- xxxvii. of this Memoir. Fifield. Pp. xii +
      438. See Memoir, Vol. I. p. xiv/'.
Letter from Henry Festing Jones in The Press, N.Z., for June 1, 191 2,
      about Butler's Dialogue, Darwin on the Origin of Species ; followed
      by the republication in The Press for June 8 of the Dialogue ;
      and in The Press of June 1 5 of some of the correspondence which
      followed the original publication (1862-3).
Samuel Butler. Article by Thomas Seccombe in Dictionary of National
      Biography, second supplement.
The Note-Books of Samuel Butler. Review in The Times Literary
     Supplement for December 5, 1912.
A Century of New Zealand Praise. By Arnold Wall. Christchurch,
     N.Z. See Sonnet xc.

xxviii                   BIBLIOGRAPHY
                                  1913
The Fair Haven.       New edition, with an Introduction by R. A.
     Streatfeild. Fifield. Pp. xx + 285.
Alps and Sanctuaries of Piedmont and the Canton Ticino. New
     edition, with Author's Revisions and Index, and an Introduction
     by R. A. Streatfeild. There is an additional chapter completed
     by H. F. Jones from material found among Butler's papers. Fifield.
     Pp. 335. The MS. of the Index and of the additional matter at
     St. John's College, Cambridge.
The Humour of Homer and other Essays. [Essays on Life, Art, and
     Science, with the addition of The Humour of Homer.'] Edited by
     R. A. Streatfeild ; with a biographical sketch of the author by
     Henry Festing Jones based on the obituary notice in The Eagle
     (1902). Fifield. Pp.313.
The Note-Books of Samuel Butler. Second impression.
Two Letters (June 20, 1889 ; March 19, 1897) from Butler to W. E.
     Heitland. In The Eagle, no. 161, June 1913.
Samuel Butler and the Simeonites : being Butler's parody of a
     Simeonite tract, edited by A. T. Bartholomew. In The Cambridge
     Magazine for March 1, 1913. Reprinted in A First Tear (1914).
Articles on the Note-Books in the Edinburgh Review, January ; the
     Book Monthly, February ; The Eagle, March ; and the Contemporary
     Review, June.
                                  1914
A First Year in Canterbury Settlement, with other Early Essays.
     Edited by R. A. Streatfeild. Fifield. Pp. xi + 272.
The Iliad rendered into English prose. New edition. Fifield.
Samuel Butler der Jllngere, 1835-1902. Versuch einer Darstellung
     seiner Gedan ken welt. Inaugural-Dissertation. Von G. Pestalozzi.
     Zurich.
The Author of Erewhon. By Desmond MacCarthy. An article in
     The Quarterly Review for January, apropos of the Note-Books, and
     of the recently published new editions of some of Butler's works.
Samuel Butler and Recent Mnemic Biological Theories. An article
     by Professor Marcus Hartog in Scientia : Rivista di Scicnza
     (Bologna) for January.
The Philosophy of Samuel Butler. An article by Robert F. Rattray
     in Mind for July.
The Author of Erewhon : the Early Life of Samuel Butler. By
     John F. Harris. In T.P.'s Weekly for July 4. With a facsimile
     of a page of the MS. of The Way of All Flesh.
Samuel Butler of Erewhon. An article by the Rev. Canon William
     Barry, D.D., in the October number of The Dublin Review.

                             BIBLIOGRAPHY                            xxix
                                    1915
The Note-Books of Samuel Butler. Third and popular impression.
Samuel Butler : a Critical Study. By Gilbert Cannan. Martin
     Seeker. Pp. 195.
Samuel Butler. By Holbrook Jackson. Two papers in T.P.'s Weekly
     for July 17 and 24, 19 1 5.
Samuel Butler (1835-1902). By George Sampson. In The Bookman
      for August. With portrait and facsimiles.
Symbiogenesis. The Universal Law of Progressive Evolution. By
      Hermann Reinheimer. Knapp, Drewett, & Sons, Ltd. See
      especially chapter vii.—Psychogenesis.
Two Sonnets on Samuel Butler. By Osbert Burdett. In Songs of
       Exuberance. A. C. Fifield.
                                    1916
The Way of All Flesh. With an Introduction by William Lyon
       Phelps, Professor of English Literature in Yale University. New
       York : E. P. Dutton. Pp. xi + 464.
 Samuel Butler, Author of Erewhon : the Man and his Work. By
       John F. Harris. With portrait (1901). Grant Richards. Pp.304.
 George Meredith, Samuel Butler, George Gissing. By W. T. Young.
       With bibliography. In The Cambridge History of English Litera        V
       ture, vol. xiii. chap. 14. Cambridge : at the University Press.
 Attilio Sella. Un Inglese Fervido Amico dell' Italia : Samuele Butler.
       (Estratto della Gazctta di Novara, n11. 1 898-1 899-1 900.)
 Memories. By Edward Clodd. Chapman & Hall. Pp. 254-263 are
       concerned with Butler, and six letters from Butler to Mr. Edward
       Clodd are given. With portrait (1901).
 Omniana. By James Franklin Fuller. Smith, Elder & Co. Pp.
        158-9 are concerned with Butler. With portrait (1901).
 Samuel Butler and the Memory Theories of Heredity. By E. S.
        Russell. Chapter xix. in Form and Function. John Murray.
 Highwap and Byways in Nottinghamshire. By J. B. Firth. Illus
        trated by Frederick L. Griggs. Macmillan. Pp. 89-96 are con
       cerned with Langar.
                                    1917
 The Note-Books of Samuel Butler. With an Introduction by Francis
       Hackett. New York. E. P. Dutton.
 Samuel Butler, author of Erewhon (1835-1902) : a Memoir. By
        Henry Festing Jones. 2 vols. Macmillan. Six advance copies
       of the work, eventually published in 19 1 9, were printed in 1 91 7.
       See Memoir, Vol. I. p. xiv.

    xxx                       BIBLIOGRAPHY
    An Introduction to a Biology, and other papers. By A. D. Darbishire.
         Cassell. " The main constructive thesis of the book is the idea,
         which we owe to Samuel Butler, that the details of the process
         of evolution can be studied most minutely in man. . . ."
J   The' Panpsychism of Samuel Butler. By May Sinclair. Chapter I.
         in A Defence of Idealism. Macmillan.
 sj Samuel Butler. By S. P. B. Mais. In From Shakespeare to O. Henry:
         Studies in Literature. Grant Richards.
    Samuel Butler the Third. By Moreby Acklom. In The Constructive
         Quarterly for March.
    Samuel Butler's Erewhon and Erewhon Revisited.            By Horace J.
         Bridges. A paper read before the Chicago Literary Club, 23rd
         April 19 1 7.
    The Movements of Plants. By Sir Francis Darwin. Evening Lecture
         delivered at the Glasgow Meeting of the British Association,
         September 16, 1 90 1. Reprinted from Nature in Rustic Sounds,
         and other studies in literature and natural history. John Murray.
          1917. See Memoir, Vol. II. p. 426.
                                       1918
    Cambridge Readings in English Literature.            Edited by George
          Sampson. Book III. Cambridge University Press. Pp. 5-15
         are occupied with an extract from Erewhon.
    Samuel Butler : an Impression.          By Desmond MacCarthy.          In
          Remnants. Constable.
 J  Recollections of Samuel Butler. By John Butler Yeats. In Essays,
          Irish and American. Dublin.
    The Real Use of a Book. Bodleian Quarterly Record, Vol. II., Nos.
          16 and 17. A note on Butler's use of Frost's Lives of Eminent
          Christians (see " Quis desiderio . . . ? " in his Essays) ; and on
          Dr. John Frost.
                                     1918-19
    Samuel Butler. By Holbrook Jackson. In To- Day for December
          1918 and January 1919.
    Catalogue of the Butler Collection at St. John's College, Cambridge.
          Parts 1-3. In The Eagle for March and June 19 18 and for June
          1919. (In progress.) See Memoir, Vol. I. p. xivd.
                                       1919
     English Literature during the last Half-Century.      By J. W. Cunliffe
          Macmillan. A chapter is devoted to Butler.
                                                                  A. T. B.

                      CHAPTER I
                          1580-1835
                     FAMILY HISTORY
                   The Butler Fam1ly
 Samuel Butler, author of Erewfton, was born on the F580-1835
 4th December 1835, at Langar Rectory, near Bingham
 in Nottinghamshire. His father was the Rev. Thomas
 Butler, F.R.G.S., then Rector of Langar-with-Bramston,
and his grandfather was Dr. Samuel Butler, the famous
 head-master of Shrewsbury School, afterwards Bishop of
 Lichfield. His mother was Fanny Worsley, daughter of
 Philip John Worsley of Arno's Vale, Bristol, sugar refiner.
     The Butlers come of an old Warwickshire yeoman
family. The earliest entry relating to them records the
 marriage on the 12th April 1580 of Henry Butler of Caw-
ston, near Dunchurch, with Alice West of Toft, also near
Dunchurch. The parish registers do not go back earlier
than 1580, but after that year many entries relating to the
family occur until 1693 when William Butler, whom we
may call William Butler I., of Thurlaston, and Alice, his
wife, had two children baptized at Dunchurch, namely on
the 17th September a daughter, Alice, and on the 14th
October a son, William, who had been born in 1690 and
whom we may call William Butler II. Then the family
moved to Kenilworth where William Butler I., after serv
ing as one of the Surveyors of Highways, as Overseer of the
Poor, and as Churchwarden, died in 1709. He was buried
at Kenilworth and is described in the register as "Yeoman."
     His son, William Butler II., was the grandfather of
   vol. 1                    • 1                      B

           2      CHILDREN
                   •*;••.                OF WILLIAM BUTLER II
                                 - ••'.•'•'-                                              1
1580-1835 Dr. Butlef'of Shrewsbury.. In 171 1, two years after his
          father's •cJeatn, he • bought The Stone House, Kenilworth,
          which is still' in the' family. Dr. Butler says of him in a
          note written in 1837 or 1838 that he
          . . . appears to have been the principal person among the yeomen of
          Kenilworth and to have had the best farm, the Hundred Oaks.
          He was many years agent to Lords Leigh and Hyde. His
          picture is not in the dress of a yeoman but of a gentleman of the
          time of George I. or II.—a blue velvet coat and handsome
          powdered periwig—whence I should conclude he was of gentle
          man's family, but I never thought of making these inquiries until
          it was too late to get an answer to them.
                William Butler II. was tw1ce married, first in 17 19
          to Ann Radburn, of Granborough on the borders of
          Northamptonshire and Warwickshire, who died within a
          year ; and secondly to Mary, daughter of Samuel Tayler,
          Esquire, of Stretton-on-Dunsmore, whose family was in
          some way connected with that of Lord Clarendon and also
          with that of Dr. Samuel Parr, the pedagogue (1747-1825).
          Mr. Tayler was the first gentleman in Warwickshire to
          shoot partridges flying. His wife was one of the Weldons
         who lived at Naseby House during the battle of Naseby.
                Dr. Butler's note on his family continues thus :
               By his second wife my grandfather had several children of
          whom my father William [whom we may call William Butler
          III.], born 1727, was the eldest son: he became entitled under
          his mother's marriage settlements to the Manor of Stretton, but
          sold his interest before coming into possession.
               My grandfather's other children were James, a surgeon, bap
          tised March nth, 1729, who died in the East Indies ; Samuel,
          baptised July 12th, 1733, who succeeded to the greater part of his
          father's property ; and Charles who died in infancy ; the daughters
          were six in number and all died unmarried. My father, William
          Butler, was a tradesman at Kenilworth and married Lucy,
          youngest daughter of Mr. Nathaniel Broxsell, a builder at
          Shepton Mallet. My mother's mother's name was Stone. She
          came of a respectable family at Doulting, near Shepton Mallet,
          and was connected with the family of whom Abbot Whiting,
          hanged at Glastonbury by Henry VIIL, was a barren but truly
          honourable branch.1
              1 "Good Abbot Whiting" was hanged in 1539. For an aecount of him see
           The Last Abbot of Glastonbury and other Essays, by Francis Aidan Gasquet, D.D.,
          Abbot President of the English Benedictines (London : Geo. Bell & Sons, 1908).

  1                THE BUTLERS' PANTRY                          ^y
       William Butler II. died in 1760 and was buried at 1580-1835
  Kenilworth where, in that part of the church which is
  called the Butlers' Pantry, there is a monument to him
  inscribed with these words :
                       HE NOW AWAITETH A JOYFUL
                      RESURRECTION AT THE LAST DAY
                      WHAT MANNER OF MAN HE WAS
                         THAT DAY WILL DISCOVER
       Something more must be said of the children of
 'William Butler II., namely William Butler III. who was
  the father of Dr. Butler ; James, Samuel, and Charles who
  were his uncles ; and the six daughters who were his
  aunts.
       The eldest son, William Butler III., seems to have
  offended his father ; he did not succeed him at The Stone
  House, nor as steward to Lord Clarendon and Lord
  Leigh, nor did he take the family estates. These ad
  vantages all passed to his younger brother, Samuel ; while
  William Butler III. carried on the trade of a linen-draper
  in Kenilworth in a house afterwards called Sion House,
  next to the Two Virgins Inn. He married Lucy Broxsell
  about the year of his father's death, 1760. He had no
  child until 1774 when his only son, afterwards Dr. Butler,
   was born and baptized Samuel on the day of his birth.
   William Butler III. died in 18 15 and his widow in 1822 :
   their epitaph in the Butlers' Pantry in Kenilworth church
   contains these words :
                THEY WERE UNOSTENTATIOUS BUT EXEMPLARY
      IN THE DISCHARGE OF THEIR RELIGIOUS MORAL AND SOCIAL DUTIES
             THIS MONUMENT WAS ERECTED BY THEIR ONLY SON
                            SAMUEL BUTLER D.D.
             ARCHDEACON OF DERBY AND VICAR OF THIS CHURCH
       f IN VENERATION  FOR THE MEMORY OF HIS BELOVED PARENTS
              AND IN HUMBLE THANKFULNESS TO ALMIGHTY GOD
                      WHO VOUCHSAFED TO GRANT THEM
           LENGTH OF DAYS ESTEEM OF FRIENDS CONTENT OF MIND
                 AND AN EASY GENTLE PASSAGE TO ETERNITY
        This inscription was composed by their son Dr. Butler ;
I our Samuel Butler considered it the most beautiful epitaph
   he knew, and frequently referred to it as an example of
   how admirably his grandfather could write.

           4             THE BATTLE OF NASEBY                         1
1580-1835       James Butler, the second son of William Butler II.,
           shall be postponed until we have dealt with the others.
                Samuel Butler, the third son of William Butler II.,
           no doubt received his baptismal name from his maternal
           grandfather, Samuel Tayler, who bequeathed to him his
           sword and spurs. He, as I have mentioned, supplanted
           his elder brother—if supplanting is the proper word ;
           but nothing is now known about the reasons for what
           happened. He died in 1806 leaving a widow, who died
           in 1820, and three children, namely : William Henry
           Butler ; Frances Mary, who became the wife of General
           Freer; and Eliza Fortune, who died in 1834. None of
           these three children left any issue.      William Henry
           Butler was, in his turn, steward to Lord Clarendon and
           Lord Leigh, and lived at The Stone House, Kenilworth,
          which on his death in 1866 passed to his sister, Mrs.
           Freer. She lived there till her death, when the house
          passed to the widow of William Henry Butler, who lived
          there till her death in 189 1. I remember lunching with
          Mrs. William Henry Butler at The Stone House in June
           1887 when I was with Butler at Kenilworth. On her
          death the house passed back to the elder branch of the
          family, that is to the descendants of William Butler III.
               Charles, the fourth son of William Butler II., died in
          infancy ; and of the six daughters only two lived to old
          age, namely Deborah and Mary. These ladies introduced
          umbrellas and tea-urns into Kenilworth, and used to tell
          that all night long before the battle of Naseby (1645)
          the young men of Naseby House were busy going about
          with dark lanterns burying the plate and linen, and the
          next day the wounded were brought into the hall.          I
          have seen some of the plate that was buried and also
          Aunt Mary's snuff-box which is still preserved in the
          family.
              Let us now return to James Butler. He was not
          only a surgeon, he was also an engineer and something
          of an artist. He entered the East India Company's
          service and was sent to Calcutta in charge of troops.
          The account of the voyage which he sent home in letters
          and a journal shows him to have been, as his great-great

 1         "A MONSTROUS LONG LETTER"                             5
 nephew, our Samuel Butler, says in his Life of Dr. Butler; 1580-1835
 " an amiable and observant man." He embarked on the
 24th February 1764 in the Vansittart "when she was
 laying off of Gravesend," and sent home from Funchal
 "a monstrous long letter." He went on shore, and
 while away from the ship—
... I heard that one of the Soldiers stole two Bottles of the Beer
 W* my Mother had made me a present of, but being detected
was whip'd & order'd into Irons ; from this you see that we
have a most unruly Crew, both Soldiers & Sailors, they are all
very riotous, but very luckily can't agree to be riotous both
 parties at the same time or even behave civil to each other since
 the first attempt of the Soldiers to destroy all the Sailors that
should oppose their going ashore when the Ship lay off of
 Gravesend, which you may have seen in the publick papers just
 before I left London, and in which fray many of the Sailors were
badly wounded. I have mentioned the Warwickshire Beer, pray
give my duty to my Mother, and say it is allow'd by all who
have tasted it to be very excellent indeed. I kept it untoutch't
till we arrived here and the warm weather & voyage have had
a good effect on it—which pleases me highly as I fancy it is the
 first Beer that ever went from Kenelworth to Madeira. . . .
      Every little Hutt here has a Vinyard and always two or
 three little Curr Dogs wch are forever yelping after you, as in
 England but in the Vintage season every Dog is lock'd fast up,
and the whelp that unluckily gets loose, is destroy'd by the first
man who sees it, with as little remorse as if it was a mad Dog,
for in that hot season the Dogs are excefllve fond of the Grapes
& would devour all they see, which they might easily do, as
they hang just mouth meet for them. . . .
      [The] Garrifon consists only of 100 Men, but there is an
unexercised Militia of 60,000 Men who are to defend the Island
when any Enemy appears, in case their Fear will let them ;
dureing this last War, the Governor, unwilling to expose so
many fine Vine Dreflers to the offensive smell of Gunpowder,
erected some loose Stone Walls 5 ft. high along the edge of the
Rocks next the Sea, and continued them 3 miles or more beyond
each end of the Town & on these Walls he set up long Stones
endways, near the height of a Man, & laid a little flat Stone
upon that to represent a Hat, as he well knew the Spaniards
would not dare to come very near, these Stones made excellent
Militia Men ; but cruel Governor ! why will you let these
brave hardy fellows stand Centinels on the Wall, now the Hurly
Burly's done, expos'd to the inclemency of the Seasons, and the
laughter of Englishmen. . . .

          6               JOANNA AND MADRAS                              1
1580-1835     There was a great Concourse of People in the great Church
          (which was strowed with Herbs & flowers) attending the Bishop
          of Madeira, who was exorcising & christening an English Boy,
          about 14 years old, in order to make him a Fryar.
               Uncle James saw a procession with hired penitents
          who crawled a mile or more on their hands and knees
          and whipped themselves till the blood came, " and is it
          not surprising that People should undergo such Pain for
          a little Money ? "
               He did not think highly of " the different Taverns
          or Coffee houses which are kept by Englishmen, who I
          suppose have left their Native Country for want of
          Fortune's Smiles " ; he thought them not worthy the
          name of taverns. " The Swan or the Two Virgins at
          Kenelworth are Palaces to them." He found the streets
          very narrow "just like Grey-Fryars in Coventry."
               The Vansittart touched at the Island of Joanna on the
          7th July and stayed there till the nth. Uncle James
          spent most of his time on shore.
              In the Evening the King's Son came to Town, from another
          Town, some Miles farther up the Country where He & his
          Father then were. He is a young Man about twenty, and much
          the handsomest Black Man in the Island, he was not black but
          sallow. . . . We had a grand Ball in the Princes Court Yard,
          the King's Son sitting by us in great State, & the walls of the
          Court Yard, & the Tops of the nearest Houses being cover'd
          with black People : they were all highly delighted with our
          Dancing & the King's Son was so deeply in Love with CapL
          Martin's youngest Daughter, a Child of about 9 or 10 Years Old,
          that he offer'd her Father 150 Dollars for her, if he would sell
          her ; but finding she was not to be purchased, he sent for a
          small uncut Ruby set in a Silver Ring which he put upon her
          Finger as a Token of his Love.
               They touched at Madras, where Uncle James with
          two gentlemen took a house in the Black Town and
          stayed about three weeks seeing all he possibly could,
          including a Malabar opera with " devilling scenes " which
          delighted him. And he saw nautch dancing and a pro
          cession in which some of the gods out of their temples
          were carried through the streets. And he made excur

1       UNOLE JAMES ESCAPES SHIPWRECK                               7
 sions into the country and was very much interested in 1580-1835
 everything.
       The Vansittart was nearly wrecked "just before the
  beginning of Ballasore Road," near the mouth of the
  Ganges, and there is an account of it, very energetic and
  detailed, perhaps even comprehensible to any one skilled
  in navigation. The ship was not lost because—
      In the meantime at 10 o'clock they had fixed on our new
 Rudder, and ventur'd to weigh Anchor, first hoisting a Whiff
 for our Yawl : & had the good Luck to find the Ship wear ;
 when we weigh'd, the wind was upon her Quarter, about half
 Ebb Tide ; & the Wind & Tide the same Way, which we
 look'd upon as providential almost ; for we have since found that
 the Rudder will not guide her when they are otherways. . . .
      [On the 23rd September the Vansittarf\ arrived at the Landing
  Place at Calcutta ; but when the Men & all their Baggage
  were landed, we marched immediately into the old Fort, & I
 went to the Town Major (Cap*. Ironside) & delivered them up
 to him, who order'd them immediately into the Barracks, to my
 no small satisfaction being heartily glad to be rid of them. . . .
      I was unwilling Dear Brother to omit any Circumstances,
 which though not greatly interesting in themselves, might be
 thought so perhaps by you, when they respected your Brother,
 besides a Journal of a Voyage to Asia by a Kenelworth Man, is
 no very common Incident, & that I hope you will accept as an
  Excuse for the immoderate Length of it : you will be so kind
 to shew it to my Friends Sawyer & Heely, & desire them to
 accept of it in that manner, as wrote to each of them also, for
 Time will not allow of my sending them Copies of it. I send
 this by the Return of the Fansittart, but (not being copy'd) must
defer sending you the Drawings I have made of each Place I
stopped at till the next Ship's return, which will be in about six
 Month's hence, till when Adieu.
      The last paragraph given above is a postscript dated
2 1st January 1765. Two copies, both incomplete, of the
letters, made probably by the writer's sister Deborah,
came into the possession of our Samuel Butler, when he
was preparing his Life of Dr. Butler. They are now in
the British Museum (Department of MSS.). In one of
the copies Butler made a note from which this is an
extract :
     This James Butler was an excellent modeller in clay ; they

            8                        UNCLE JAMES                               1
1580-1835 had at The Stone House when I was a boy a pretty figure of a
            beggar lying under a tree by him ; he also made the cabinet
            that used to stand at the end of the dining-room ; but on General
            Freer's death these things were dispersed, I know not where.
                 I have heard his niece, Mrs. Freer, who was my grandfather's
            first cousin, say that he got into some scrape about the making of a
           canal near or to Birmingham, and entered the East India Company's
           service in consequence. Nothing was ever heard of him after the
           latest of these letters.
                 When Mrs. Freer heard that I was taking up art she told me
           I thought perhaps that I had the ability of my Uncle James, but
           that this was not at all probable.
                 S. B. Oct. 16, 1887.
                  I have dwelt at some length upon these letters because
            Butler always had a warm corner in his heart for his great-
            great-uncle James. He thought it possible he might have
            more in common with him than Mrs. Freer had been
          I willing to admit. He liked his going abroad in con
            sequence of some undefined scrape ; he liked his modelling
            in clay and making drawings of all the places he stopped
            at during his voyage to India—he was the only Butler he
            had ever heard of who took an active pleasure in art ; he
            liked his letters home and, in his Life of Dr. Butler,
             he gave an extract from what he there calls the " curious
            and Defoe-like " account of his touching at the Island of
            Joanna ; he liked the grapes hanging " mouth meet " for
            the " little Curr Dogs " and the exorcising and christening
             of the boy at Madeira—he saw something very like it
             himself at Trapani in Sicily in 1 892 (post, II. p. 143) ; but
            best of all he liked the escape from shipwreck being partly
            due to " good Luck " and partly " providential almost."
                  We have now disposed of all the children of William
             Butler II. and of the three children of his son Samuel ;
             these three children left no descendants, and it remains to
             follow the only child of William Butler III., namely Dr.
             Samuel Butler, the grandfather of our Samuel Butler.
                  Dr. Butler was "originally intended for trade" but
            his " father's misfortunes most strangely led to his being
            sent to Rugby and afterwards to college." This is
            probably an allusion to Captain Patrick Don, who urged
            his father to send him to Rugby : for the Captain lodged

i                 DR. BUTLER'S CAREER                       9
  with the boy's parents, and if there had been no mis- 1580-1835
  fortunes there would have been no lodger and then
  Captain Don would have had no opportunity of forming
  an opinion as to the boy's capabilities, and would not have
  urged his being sent to Rugby.
       He went there on the 31st March 1783, being then a
  little over nine years old, and was put in the lower remove
  of the third form. Dr. James was his head-master, and
  among his schoolfellows were Walter Savage Landor ;
  William Hill, afterwards Lord Berwick ; and Henry
  Francis Cary, the friend of Charles Lamb and translator
  of Dante.
       In October 1 79 1 he went to St. John's College,
  Cambridge ; in 1798 he became head-master of Shrewsbury
  School, and married Harriet, fifth daughter of Dr. East
  Apthorp of Cambridge. Another Miss Apthorp married
  the Rev. Edmund Paley, Rector of Easingwold, near
  York, son of William Paley (1743-1805), author of The
  Evidences of Christianity, and father of the classical
  scholar Frederick Apthorp Paley (18 15-1888).
       Dr. Butler remained at Shrewsbury thirty-eight years
  and under him the school, which had only one boarder when
   he went there, became the most famous in England. In
  addition to the normal difficulties of his position he had
  another in his second master, Mr. Jeudwine, who was
  appointed by St. John's College about a month after his
  own installation, and who was irremoveable. Dr. Butler
  and Mr. Jeudwine were from the first unable to get on
  together ; they did not speak ; they addressed one another
  by letter, generally in the third person, and were not
  reconciled until, after thirty-seven years of this life, six
   months before Dr. Butler gave up the school, Jeudwine
  lay on his death-bed. " I have been told, but cannot
  vouch for it, that they took the Sacrament together—a
  scene than which I can imagine nothing more full of
  pathos" {Life of Dr. Butler, I. 41).
       Dr. Butler left Shrewsbury in 1836 to be consecrated
  Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry, and died on the
  4th December 1839, the day on which his grandson, our
  Samuel Butler, completed his fourth year. There is a

            1o       DR. BUTLER ESCAPES SHIPWRECK                                           1
1 580-1835 full account of this profound scholar and most able and
           distinguished man in The Life and Letters of Dr. Samuel
            Butler, by his grandson Samuel Butler (London : John
            Murray, 1896), from which I have taken many of the
           foregoing particulars and from which I also take the
           following.
                 Dr. Butler was returning from Rome in July 1822,
           intending to proceed by the coast road from Lerici to
           Genoa. There were storms, one of which wrecked Shelley
           and Williams; and another, on the night of nth July,
           destroyed fourteen miles of the road to Genoa. The
           destruction of the road made Dr. Butler change his mind
           and wish to travel by sea, but there came a third storm
           as to which Dr. Butler wrote in his diary on 13th July :
                When I got my carriage embarked at Lerici in order to
           proceed by sea, which was as clear and as smooth as a looking-
           glass, an accidental, or I may rather say a providential, delay in
           signing my bill of health for Genoa saved me from a sudden
           hurricane that must have been fatal if I had been out at sea
           {Life of Dr. Butler, I. 230, and see post, p. 387).
                 Dr. Butler left three children : Mary, who became
           the second wife of the Rev. Edward Bather (1 779-1 847),
           Archdeacon of Salop and Vicar of Meole Brace, near
           Shrewsbury ; Harriet, who married Archdeacon Lloyd ;
           and Thomas, the father of our Samuel Butler. By his
           will he devised an estate in the Abbey Foregate, on the
           outskirts of Shrewsbury, which he had bought from the
           Earl of Tankerville, with the mansion-house called the
           Whitehall, in such a way as to give our Samuel Butler a
           reversionary interest contingent on his surviving his aunt,
           Mrs. Lloyd, and his father, Thomas Butler. This is
           referred to more particularly later.
                 When Butler was collecting materials for the Life of
          his grandfather, he saw many who remembered Dr. Butler.
           Here is a note he made after one of these interviews :
                Dr. Welldon, some time head-master of Tonbridge School,
           who died less than a year ago,1 and was for a short time second
           master at Shrewsbury under Dr. Butler [that is, he succeeded
              1 Rev. James Ind Welldon, D.C.L., St. John's College, Cambridge (1 81 1-1896),
           head.master of Tonbridge, 1 843-1 875.

 ,                         CANON WHATELY                                        11
Jeudwine], told me of the following incident as having taken 1 580-1 835
 place when Archdeacon Bather was lunching with my grandfather
some two or three years after the Archdeacon had lost his first
 wife. Dr. Butler dearly loved a hard crust of bread baked nearly
 black, and it so happened that a piece was set by his plate with
 hardly any crust, and what little there was very thin. My aunt,
 then Miss Butler, observing what had happened, at once said :
      " Oh Papa, this won't do at all, I will find you a piece more
 to your liking." Whereon she went to the kitchen, and returned
 with a crust baked exactly to Dr. Butler's taste.
      When Archdeacon Bather saw this he said to himself: "That
 is the young woman for me " ; and shortly afterwards he proposed
and was accepted.
       They were married in 1828 and had no children.
 Dr. Butler's other daughter, the wife of Archdeacon
 Lloyd, had three children, cousins of our Butler, namely
 the Rev. Archdeacon Thomas Lloyd ; Mrs. Whately,
 the wife of the Rev. Canon Whately ; and William
 Lloyd, to whose son, Mr. George Butler Lloyd of Shenley
 Hall, Shrewsbury, I am indebted for many particulars
 of his family. Among other things he told me that
 Canon Whately was a nephew of Richard Whately (1787-
  1863), Archbishop of Dublin ; and that Joseph Whately,
 the father of the Archbishop, and therefore grandfather
 of the Canon, was Vicar of Widford, near Ware, in
 Hertfordshire, and married Jane, daughter of William
 Plumer of Blakesware, also near Ware.                             Blakesware,
 since demolished, was the old mansion of which Mrs.
 Field, Charles Lamb's grandmother, was housekeeper,
 and is described in the writings of both Charles and
 Mary Lamb.1
       Dr. Butler's third child, Thomas, the father of our
 Samuel Butler, was born 28th November 1806. Dr. Parr,
 the pedagogue, stood godfather at his baptism, Mrs.
 Wynne, Dr. Parr's daughter, being godmother. When
Butler's sisters, Mrs. Bridges and Miss Butler, showed
me the plate that had been buried during the batde of
Naseby, they also showed me two silver cups engraved
with a panther and a Greek inscription signifying : Once
    1 The Life of Charltt Lamb, by E. V. Lucas (London : Mcthuen k Co., 1905). But
Mr. Lucas says (I. 37) that it was the Archbishop who married Jane Plumer. The
Dictionary of National Biography (art. Whately) is right.

           12                DR. ROBERT DARWIN                         1
1580-1835 I was Taylor's ; then I was Parr's ; now I am Butler's.
           They told me that the panther is the crest of the Taylors
           of Norwich who knew Dr. Parr while he was head-master
           of the Norwich Grammar School from 1779 to 1785.
                Thomas Butler went to school at Shrewsbury under
           his father, Dr. Butler. Having to write a theme upon
           " Silence " he began :
                " Silence is a virtue which renders us agreeable to our
           fellow creatures."
                He wrote another on " Inconsistency " which began :
         I      " Inconsistency is a vice which degrades human nature
           and levels man with the brute."
                He was not intending to be satirical, but his son
           was when he afterwards used both these aphorisms in
           Erewhon ; he edited the second, however, by changing
           " Inconsistency " into " Consistency."
                While Thomas Butler was at school, Dr. Robert
           Waring Darwin was the leading medical man in Shrews
           bury. There were many anecdotes about him and among
           them this one which Butler picked up in the town when
           he was collecting material for his Life of his grandfather.
                Dr. Darwin was called to a critical case at a country
           house near Shrewsbury ; his fee was twenty guineas, and,
           after seeing his patient and, if I remember right, perform
           ing an operation, he was waiting for luncheon, standing
           with his back to the dining-room fire and talking with
           another gentleman, when a servant brought him a little
           packet on a silver salver. He knew it was his fee, took
           it, carried it round behind him, unwrapped it, threw the
           paper into the fire and counted the coins.
                " Twenty ! " he exclaimed ; " that's just like these
           people, they always dock one of the odd shillings."
                Then, bringing his hand round to the front, he saw
           that the twenty coins were the odd shillings—the paper
           he had burnt was the ^20 note.
                Among Thomas Butler's schoolfellows were Dr.
           Darwin's two sons, Erasmus and Charles.             Thomas
           Butler was at St. John's College, Cambridge, while
           Charles Darwin was at Christ's ; and they spent the
           summer of 1828 together on a reading party at Bar

 i            CANON BUTLER'S CAREER                                   13
  mouth, but I do not gather from the papers that they 1580-1835
  were particularly intimate. There is an allusion to
 jealousy because Thomas Butler used to dine frequently
 with Lady Powis, who employed Dr. Du Gard, another
 medical man of Shrewsbury, instead of consulting Dr.
 Robert Darwin. This would hardly be enough to account
 for anything like hostility. At any rate, they were on
 sufficiently friendly terms for Thomas Butler to say of
 Charles Darwin, " He inoculated me with a taste for
 Botany which has stuck by me all my life." 1 This taste
 for botany led him to make a valuable collection of dried
 plants which, towards the end of his life, he presented to
 the Town Museum of Shrewsbury.
     The last time they met was after Charles Darwin
 returned from the Beagle expedition ; they travelled in a
 stage-coach from Birmingham to Shrewsbury, together
 with Southey. Canon Butler was rather reticent about
 this meeting with Southey ; he could only be got to say :
 " Yes ; I ought to have read Thalaba, and I hadn't."
     Thomas Butler took his degree in 1829, being 7th
 Classic and 20th Senior Optime.                         He was ordained
 deacon in the same year, and priest in the following year.
 On leaving Cambridge he returned to Shrewsbury as
 assistant-master at the school and curate to his brother-in-
 law, Archdeacon Bather, at Meole Brace, near Shrewsbury.
     Dr. Butler's younger daughter, Mrs. Lloyd, was at
 this time living in Shrewsbury, on St. John's Hill, her
 next-door neighbours being a Mr. and Mrs. Hutchings
 who had come to Shrewsbury to give their sons a classical
 education at a small expense. Mrs. Hutchings, whose
 maiden name was Savery, had a sister Sarah, the wife of
 Philip John Worsley of Arno's Vale, Bristol, sugar refiner.
 Sarah Worsley was the mother of eight children, some of
 whom occasionally came to Shrewsbury on a visit to their
 Aunt Hutchings. In this way the Rev. Thomas Butler
 became acquainted with Miss Fanny Worsley, whom he
married in 1831. In 1834, having been presented to the
living of Langar-with-Bramston, in Nottinghamshire, he
moved to that village. He was Rural Dean of Bingham,
                1 Life end Letter1 of Charles Dartvirt, I. 1 68.

           14       CANON BUTLER'S CHILDREN                         1
1580-1835 Nottinghamshire, first division, from 1855 to 1872, and
          was appointed to the prebendal stall of Clifton in Lincoln
          Cathedral in 1868. In 1873 his wife died. In 1876 he
          resigned his living and returned to Shrewsbury, where he
          died in 1886. He had five children, viz. :
              1. Harriet Fanny, born January 1834, who married
          and survived George L. Bridges, brother of Robert
          Bridges, Poet Laureate.
              2. Samuel (the subject of this memoir), born 4th
          December 1835.
              3. Thomas, who married Henrietta Rigby, and died
          in 1884, leaving four children, viz. : (1) Henry Thomas,
          the present head of the family ; (2) Charles S. ; (3)
          Elizabeth, who married Major Richard Burton Phillip-
          son ; and (4) Mary.
              4. William, who died in infancy.
              5. Mary, born 1841, died 1916.
              The genealogical part of the foregoing, stated in the
          form of a pedigree, would appear as follows :

                                     FAMILY HISTORY                                                       J5
                             Ped1gree of the Butler Fam1ly
             W1ll1am Butler I. = Alice.                         Samuel Tayler=Miss Weldon
             of Thurlaston and                                    of Strctton.       of Naseby House.
            Kenil worth, d. 1709.                               on.Dunsmorc.
         Alice.            Ann Radburn = W1ll1am Bran II. = Mary Tayler.
                                                 b. at Dunchurch,
                                                 1690, d. at Kenil.
                                                 worth, 1760.
                                           '-?-
Mi'1 Stone = Nathaniel Broxsell.
                               I
Lucy Broxaell = W1ll1am Butler III., Jamea, Samuel =
                                                     I                                Charles.   Six daughters, who
                      b. 1727, d. 1815           b. 1729, b. 1733, d. 1820.                        all died un
                                                d. 1765? d.1806                                    married,of whom
                                                                                                   one was Deborah
                                                                                                   and one Mary.
     Dr. Samuel Butli»= Harriet                 Mary = William Henry              Frances Mary        Eliza Fortune.
       k 1774, m. 1798,          Apthorp.               I      Butler.             (Mrs. Freer).
             d.1839                                    up.                              >.p.
                                                                   Philip John Worsley = Sarah Savery.
    Mary
        I                    II
                       Harriet          Rev. Thomas Butlek = Fanny Worsley.
                                                                              II             Philip.        Other
(Mrs. Batber). (Mrs. Lloyd).              b. 1806, m. 183 1,                                              children.
     tf.                   i                    d. 1886.
                                                                            Philip.       Reginald.      Other
Rer. Archdeacon         Mrs. Whately.       William Lloyd.                                              children.
 Thomas Lloyd.
                                         George Butler Lloyd.
Geo. L.= Harriet
                I                  I
                          Samuel Butler-
                                                             I                  .
                                                   Thomas Butler = Henr1etta R1gby.
                                                                                                      II
                                                                                                 William.      Mary.
Bridges | Fanny.          b. 1835, d. 1902.             d. 1884.       I                       d. in infancy.
        *t.                                                            I
                               I                          I.I.                                                   I
Ada Wheeler = Henry Thomas Butler                   Charles S.           Elizabeth = Richard Burton            Mary.
                    of The Stone House,                                                   Phillipson.
                        Kenilworth.
     r            Patrick.           Kathleen.

           16                  JOHN WORSLEY
                            The Worsley Fam1ly
1580-1835      There is little doubt that the Worsleys are descended
          from the old Lancashire family of Worked legh, whose
          records go back to the time of King John. Butler's
          mother, Fanny Worsley, was one of a Unitarian branch,
          which may be considered as beginning with Thomas
          Worsley of Stevenage and Hitchin, husbandman, who
          died in 1685.
               His son John (1662-1736) is the first of whom there
          is any exact record that he was a nonconformist.
               He had a son, also John (1696-1767), who was
          educated for the nonconformist ministry, but did not
          enter it. He was a scholar and lived in The Tower
          House in the Castle of Hertford, where he kept a school.
          He must have been a man of some independence of
          thought, who liked to go to the root of things and would
          not put up with less than the best he could get. Having
          come to the conclusion that the authorised version of the
          New Testament was susceptible of improvement, he made
          a new translation himself.
               " The English translation of the Bible in the reign of
          King James I.," he writes in the author's advertisement,
          " is, no doubt, a very good one ; and justly so esteemed
          to this day, although it be a hundred and fifty years old."
          He goes on to say that he has attempted to bring his
        - translation nearer to the original. More than a hundred
          and thirty years later his great-great-grandson, our Samuel
          Butler, in making his translations of the ///W(18q8) and
          of the Odyssey (1900), was actuated by similar motives.
               John Worsley married Grace, daughter of the Rev.
          George Hughes, an eminent nonconformist minister of
          Canterbury, and had six children, the youngest being
               Samuel Worsley (1740-1800), who was minister of
          Cross Brook Nonconformist Chapel, Cheshunt, Herts,
          and married Hannah, daughter of Philip Carter of
          Bishopsgate Street, London. In 1770 he and his brother-
          in-law, the Rev. M. Bradshaw, minister of Brentford,
          published, by subscription in London, John Worsley's

1               THE TAYLORS OF NORWICH                                              17
translation of the New Testament. Samuel Worsley had 1580-1835
 many children, of whom only three survived childhood,
 and of these we are only concerned with
       Philip John Worsley (1769-18 n), of Arno's Vale,
 near Bristol, sugar refiner. He married Sarah, the elder
 of the two daughters of John Savery of Butcombe Court,
 Somerset, of an old Devonshire family (the younger
 daughter being Mrs. Hutchings mentioned above). He
 had three sons, of whom the eldest was Philip Worsley
 (1802— 1893) » ana" five daughters, of whom the third was
 Fanny (1808-1873), who in 1831 married the Rev.
 Thomas Butler and became the mother of our Samuel
 Butler.
       I did not make Butler's acquaintance till after his
 mother's death, so I never saw her ; but I remember dining
 with her brother, Philip Worsley, at his house in Chester
 Terrace, Regent's Park. He married, in 1832, Annie
 (1806-1877), eldest daughter of John Taylor, F.R.S., of
 Bedford Row. This John Taylor was the eldest son of
 Mr. and Mrs. John Taylor of Norwich, who gave Dr.
 Parr the silver cups mentioned above.                              An aunt of
 Florence Nightingale, talking of the excitement prevailing
 in Norwich when the news of the fall of the Bastille was
 first known, said to Henry Reeve (1 8 13—1895), editor
  of The Edinburgh Review and a grandson of Mrs. John
 Taylor, "Don't I remember your glorious grandmother
  dancing round the Tree of Liberty with Dr. Parr ? " *
       Mrs. Thomas Butler's brother, Philip Worsley, had
  five children, of whom the youngest, Reginald, was
  intimate with his cousin, our Samuel Butler, and his name
  will occur frequently in this memoir. The eldest son,
  Mr. Philip Worsley, of Rodney Lodge, Clifton, Bristol,
  has kindly allowed me to make use of the pedigree of his
  family, which he has prepared ; and also of a manuscript
  volume of interesting family reminiscences written by his
  father in 1877.
    1 Tkree Gentratiorss of Englishwomen : Memoirs and Correspondence of Mrs. yohn
 Tayhr, Mrs. Sarah jtststin- and Lady Duff Gordon (new edition, 1893, P. 21) i ,ee a^80
Tie Fourth Generation (19121 p. ij), both books by Mrs. Janet Ross.
   VOL. I

                                CHAPTER II
                                    1835-1845
                      EARLY LIFE AND REMINISCENCES
1835-1845 In the ordinary course Butler would have been baptized
          soon after his birth, but Dr. Butler was to stand godfather
          and also to perform the ceremony, and was too busy to go
          immediately to Langar. Further delay was occasioned
          by its becoming known, in April 1836, that he was to be
          made a bishop and by the consequent arrangements for his
          leaving Shrewsbury ; then came his farewell speech day,
          and on the 23rd June his wife, who had been to Langar,
          wrote to him : " You cannot think what a lovely grand
          child you have ; he is only waiting for you to christen
          him after yourself" {Life of Dr. Butler, II. 168). On
          the 3rd July he was consecrated Bishop of Lichfield and
          Coventry, and it was not until the autumn that he was
          free to go to Langar and perform the ceremony. Butler
          used to say that this postponement was a very risky
          business, because during all these months the devil had
          the run of him.
              Among Dr. Butler's large circle of friends was a
          traveller who had given him a bottle of water from the
          Jordan. Dr. Butler himself had puzzled the custom
          houses by bringing to England water from the Rhine, the
          Rhone, the Danube, and the Po to make " Punch aux
          quatre fleuves " {Life of Dr. Butler, I. 357), but the
          water from the Jordan he reserved and used for the
          baptism of his grandson. For the christening dinner he
          sent a turbot from Grove's, which was entrusted to the
          Langar cook and in due course brought to table. Dr.
                                       18

  h               HONEY AND BIRDS' EGGS                           19
  Butler was sitting on one side of his daughter-in-law and 183S~l845
  old Mr. Brooke, Rector of Gamston, North Notts, on the
  other ; when the cover was removed and the bishop saw
  what had happened to the turbot he turned to his hostess
  and exclaimed : " Good God, Fanny ! it's skinned ! "
  These were his ipsissima verba as reported by Mr. Brooke,
  years afterwards, to Butler.
        Butler could just remember his grandfather—
       I had a vision of myself before a nursery fire with Dr. Butler
  walking up and down the room watching my sister Harrie and
  myself. The nursery was not our Langar nursery. For a long
  time I thought this must be fancy, but on finding from Arch
  deacon Lloyd [his cousin] that we were at Eccleshall [staying
  with Dr. Butler at the Bishop's Palace] at the end of 1838,
  I think it is probably true. My brother William died 4th
  Jan. 1839 when I was three years and one month old. This
  I can remember distinctly. My grandfather's death in 1839
  (Dec 4), I remember vividly. I was in the nursery [at
  Langar] which became afterwards my mother's room, i.e. the
  first-floor room of the Rectory that had one window looking
  east and two looking south. Mrs. Watchorn had given me a
  little pot of honey as a birthday present, it being my birthday,
  and a string of birds' eggs. My father came in, told us grand
  papa was dead, and took away the honey saying it would not be
  good for us.
        In his Life of Dr. Butler we are told that both the
  honey and the birds' eggs were taken away " for a time,"
  and that it was done " doubtless to impress the event "
  upon his memory. It may have been so ; but I suspect
   that these words which I have quoted were added by
' Butler to soften his father's conduct in the eyes of the
  public for whom he was writing. Whether it was so or
   not, certainly the childhood of Ernest Pontifex in The
   Way ofAll Flesh is drawn as faithfully as he could draw it
  from his own ; Theobald and Christina being portraits of
  his own father and mother as accurate as he could make
  them, with no softening and no exaggeration. He often
  said, as Ernest says in chap- xx., that with regard to
  his father he could remember no feeling during his
  childhood except fear and shrinking. Canon and Mrs.
  Buder, when their first children were born, no doubt

          ao        "BREAK YOUR CHILD'S WILL"                              ..
1835-1845 considered that the bringing up of a family was an affair
          too serious to be undertaken lightly by inexperienced
          parents ; they accordingly sought assistance from a little
          book wherein, among other precepts, they read, " Break
          your child's will early, or he will break yours later on."
              I do not remember ever hearing that Butler, like
          Ernest, was late in being able to sound the hard c or k,
          but he very likely was ; and certainly one of the hymns
          of his childhood was " Come to the sunset tree." If he
          did not commit the particular crime ascribed to Ernest
          in connection with this hymn (chap- xxii.), he was so
          frequently flogged, ostensibly for trivial or imaginary
          delinquencies, but really, as it seemed to the victim,
          because his father was in an irritable mood, that the
          account of poor Ernest's punishment is only a fair sample
          of his father's ordinary practice. And from this he drew
          the general conclusion that, like the prophet Habakkuk,
          " Le pere de famille est capable de tout." At the same
          time he, of course, knew that there existed fathers of
          another kind. Edward Overton, in The Way ofAll Flesh,
          is not on bad terms with his father ; in the Memoir
          prefixed to The Fair Haven (1873), Mr. Owen is good to
          his boys and they are fond of him ; and it is the same
          with Mr. Higgs and his sons in Erewhon Revisited
          (1901). Indeed, I doubt whether Butler could have
          written about Mr. Higgs and George with such con
          vincing tenderness unless he had been describing not
          something he had experienced and grown accustomed to,
          but something he had unconsciously yearned for and
          never known in his own childhood and youth.
              It is not a subject to be dwelt upon, and all that need
          be said further about it here is summed up in a note made
          in 1883 :
                            My Father and Myself
              He never liked me, nor I him ; from my earliest recollections
          I can call to mind no time when I did not fear him and dislike
          him ; over and over again I have relented towards him and said to
          myself that he was a good fellow after all ; but I had hardly done
          so when he would go for me in some way or other which soured
          me again. I have no doubt I have made myself very disagreeable ;

 11            BUTLERS AND PONTIFEXES                             21
 certainly I have done many very silly and very wrong things ; I am 1835-1845
 not at all sure that the fault is more his than mine. But no matter
 whose it is, the fact remains that for years and years I have never
passed a day without thinking of him many times over as the man
who was sure to be against me, and who would see the bad side
rather than the good of everything I said and did. He used to
say to his nurse, so my aunt, Mrs. Bather, said : " I'll keep you :
you shan't leave : I'll keep you on purpose to torment you."
    And I have felt that he has always looked upon me as
something which he could badger with impunity, or very like it,
as he badgered his nurse. There can be no real peace and
contentment for me until either he or I are where the wicked
cease from troubling. An unkind fate never threw two men
together who were more naturally uncongenial than my father
and myself.
     It would be idle for any one to attempt to add to the
description of Butler's early life as he has given it in the
novel, and I shall assume that the reader is acquainted
with that book. It was begun in 1873 and finished in
 1884 ; "finished," however, is hardly the correct word,
because during all the rest of his life he intended to
reconsider and rewrite it ; but he never did anything to
it after February 1885. It was published in 1903, a
 year after his death, by Mr. R. A. Streatfeild, his literary
executor. From the internal chronology of the book it
appears to have been written in 1867 by Edward Overton,
 born in 1802, son of the Rector of Paleham and an old
 friend and neighbour of the Pontifex family. Both
 Ernest Pontifex and Edward Overton are portraits of
 Butler, the narrator being Butler as a man of sixty-five,
 and the hero being also Butler as a child, a boy, a youth,
and a man. By making the narrator an elderly man he
was able to introduce reminiscences of Ernest's ancestors,
imitated from what he had heard of his own, and thus to
emphasise_ Ernest's pre-natal experience.              Not onIy~ls
Theobald Pontifex, the country clergyman, his own
father, but George Pontifex, the successful publisher, was
intended for Dr. Butler with his profession altered.
Similarly John Pontifex, the village carpenter, is Buder's
great-grandfather, by hearsay, with his trade altered. On
the monument to John Pontifex in Paleham church
 (chap, iii.) occur the words : " They were unostentatious

          22                 ORGAN BUILDING                         n
1835-1845 but exemplary in the discharge of their religious, moral,
          and social duties," which is a quotation from the inscrip
          tion written by Dr. Butler for the monument of his father
          and mother in Kenilworth church (ante, p. 3). Again,
          the words from the epitaph on George Pontifex (chap.
          xviii., on which Edward Overton remarks, " I believe that
          it was the intention to convey that nothing short of the
          Day of Judgement could give any idea of how good a
          man Mr. Pontifex had been ") are taken not from Dr.
          Butler's own monument, but from that to his grandfather,
          William Butler II. (ante, p. 3).
               It is not probable that John Pontifex is much like
          Dr. Butler's father, William Butler III., who died in
          181 5 ; Butler can only have reproduced what he had
          heard of him. The points he was chiefly concerned to
          bring out were that he earned his own living and was a
          quiet sensible man whose son succeeded without any
          financial assistance. In comparing the two we must
          remember that for John Pontifex to become a carpenter
          was a rise in the social scale, because his father had been
          only a labourer ; whereas it was a fall for William Butler
          III. to become a linen-draper ; but he only fell paren
          thetically in the family history.
               I think I know why John Pontifex was a carpenter
          and not a linen-draper or anything but a carpenter.
          Professor Sale, whose acquaintance Butler made in New
          Zealand, and who, as will appear presently, gave me many
          details of his colonial life, told me that he remembered
          being taken in the fifties to see an old village carpenter
          who lived with a friend, another carpenter, somewhere in
          Warwickshire, near Knowle. This old man wore knee-
          breeches and buckles to his shoes, and he had made an
           organ. He and his friend played on their instrument,
           but, not being able to play very well, they asked Professor
           Sale to play to them : they particularly wished to hear,
           and accordingly he played, " Before Jehovah's awful
           throne." In New Zealand Professor Sale told this
           anecdote to Butler, who, no doubt, appropriated it ; and,
          combining it with his own reminiscences of some old man
          at Langar who hobbled about in knee-breeches and woollen

  n                        THEOBALD                             23
  stockings, elaborated John Pontifex. He would see the 1835-1845
 value of a village carpenter making an organ as prepara
 tion for Alethea's organ-building scheme in chap- xxxiv.
 which, with no preparation, might have struck some
 readers as too fantastic.
      Certainly George Pontifex is not a portrait of Dr.
 Butler ; he is but a reproduction of Butler's notion of his
 grandfather derived from what Canon Butler had told
 him. It is, however, like the bishop in this respect, that
 he was a man who knew how to get on in the world and
amassed a considerable fortune ; and this was necessary for
the scheme of the book.
      Miss Worsley and her sisters did not play cards for
 Canon Butler as Christina and her sisters did for Theobald ;
 but the incident is taken from life, though I do not now
 remember in what family it occurred. Nor were Canon
 Butler's sermons sold, like Theobald's, for ninepence a
 barrow-load. I do not know whose sermons were so sold ;
 but Butler got the episode from a letter written in 1835
 by his great-aunt, Mrs. Paley of Easingvvold, to Dr.
Butler, an extract from which is quoted in an Appendix :
Addenda for The Way of All Flesh.
      Theobald's irritability and neatness ; his hortus siccus ;
the conviction with which he sums up how things are ;
the "ready to believe" and "willing to hope," and the
other tags and mannerisms are all photographed from
Canon Butler, who actually did make his son go through
the examination papers after he had been examined for
his degree and reproduce all his answers. Here is a note
about him which will help to throw light upon the original
of Theobald :
     Archdeacon Bather and my aunt were staying at Langar and
went for a drive to Colston ; my father was driving and my aunt
and I were on the seat behind. The roads were in those days
notoriously rough, indeed in winter they were almost impassable,
but this was summer. Presently the Archdeacon, who was then
nearly blind, said that after all he had heard about our roads, he
was surprised not to be jolted ; on which my aunt explained that
my father was driving in the ruts. The Archdeacon laughed
and said :
    " Ha, ha ! let Tom Butler alone to drive in the ruts."

              24                       CHRISTINA                          11
1 835-1 845        Christina's avoidance of black puddings and strangled
           ] fowls (chap- xvi.) is taken from Mrs. Butler ; and so
          I are her reveries. Butler sometimes indulged in reveries
              himself and then called himself " Christina " in fun, so
              that it passed into a by-word with us ; and if I thought he
              was travelling a little far into the rosy future, I used to
              agree with him, saying, " Yes, Christina," whereon he
              would laugh.
                   Christina's letter addressed to " My two dear boys "
              (chap, xxv.) is a copy of one his mother wrote before
              the birth of her younger daughter, Mary. It is dated
              "Langar, Feb. 6, 1841." She did not then die, as she
              feared she might ; but she kept the letter in her desk
              all the rest of her life, and Butler wrote on it : " Received
              by me, May nth, 1873, on my mother's death. It was
              evidently by her desire that the letter which she had so .
              long preserved should be sent to my brother and myself."
              Butler was particular to insert in chap- lxxxiv. Ernest's
              reason for wishing to have this letter reproduced, namely,
              his conviction that Christina would have desired its publi
              cation ; he considered this as his own justification for pub
              lishing his own mother's letter ; or rather he considered it
            I as evidence that no justification was necessary. He used
              to tell me about some muddle-headed wandering of his
              mother's in which she exhorted him to "have his loins
              girt about with the breast-plate of purity " ; I thought it
              was in this letter or in some sofa-talk, but I cannot find
              it in the book. I suppose he cut it out as extravagant,
              for there is no intentional exaggeration in Christina as a
              portrait of his mother. Mrs. Owen in the Memoir pre
               fixed to The Fair Haven is also drawn from his own mother.
                    The family prayers ; the sofa-talks ; the dining-room
               with the picture of " Elijah (or Elisha whichever it was),"
               and the boy's attempt to assist the food to pass from the
               ravens' beaks to the prophet's mouth by tracing a greasy
              line with bread-and-butter right across the intervening
               space ; the prayers and • hymns and sums and happy.
               Sunday evenings, and the general atmosphere of Battersby
               are all, as faithfully as he could do it, reproduced from
               Langar. Paleham and Crampsford• are also both drawn

n                FIRST VISIT TO ITALY                          25
from Langar, just as Scheria and Ithaca, in the Odyssey , 1835-1845
are both drawn from Trapani and Mount Eryx {The
Authoress of the Odyssey).
     As Theobald was Ernest's first schoolmaster, so
Butler's father began his education. In chap. xx. we are
told :
    Before Ernest [and it is true of Butler] could well crawl he
was taught to kneel ; before he could well speak he was taught
to lisp the Lord's prayer, and the general confession. How was
it possible that these things could be taught too early ? If his
attention flagged or his memory failed him, here was an ill weed
which would grow apace unless it were plucked out immediately ;
and the only way to pluck it out was to whip him or shut him up
in a cupboard or dock him of some of the small pleasures of child
hood. Before he was three years old he could read and, after a
fashion, write. Before he was four he was learning Latin and
could do rule-of-three sums.
     There is very little that Butler remembered of his
own early life which is not reproduced in The Way of All
 Flesh, but in 1843 something happened to him which did
not happen to Ernest. In that year the family, consisting
 of his father and mother, his elder sister, himself, his
 brother, and his younger sister (then a baby of two years
 old) went to Italy.
     The South-Eastern Railway stopped at Ashford, where
 they slept and whence they proceeded to Dover in their
 own carriage.       The carriage was put on board the
 steamer, and they crossed the Channel. In Belgium there
 was railway as far as Liege. They stopped a week at
 Chaudfontaine. There was no rail to Cologne, but from
 Kehl to Basel the line was open. They travelled leisurely
 in their carriage through Switzerland and Italy and down
 to Rome. There was no railway in all Italy except from
 Naples to Castellamare.         They drove through Parma,
 where the widow of Napoleon was still reigning, and on
 through Modena, Bologna, and Florence to Rome. They
 seemed to pass a fresh custom-house every day, but, by
 tipping the searchers, generally got through without
 inconvenience. The bread was sour, and the Italian
 butter rank and cheesy—often uneatable. Beggars would
run after the carriage* all day long, and when they got

          26                        DISGRAZIA                             n
1835-1845 nothing would shout "Eretici!" They spent half the
           winter in Rome, and saw Pope Gregory XVI. close at
           hand for an hour or more, taking part in some ceremony
           in the Sistine Chapel ; and they saw the cardinals kiss his
           slipper. They saw a monk come rolling down a staircase
          into the Corso like a sack of potatoes, bundled into the
          street by a man and his wife. So recently as 28 th
          November 1898 he made a note referring to this early
          visit :
                         Myself th1s Day 55 Years ago
               It was my father's birthday and we were all in Rome for the
          winter of 1843. To celebrate the day we children were taken
          up to the top of St. Peter's. I was then just a week under
          8 years of age and have a vivid recollection of the event.
               They spent the second half of the winter in Naples,
          and both in Rome and Naples had lessons in Italian, for
          which Butler was always grateful.
              Signora Capocci (I think her name was), who used to teach
          us Italian at Naples, told us of a poor dear young friend of hers
          who had had a great misfortune. Her words impressed me :
              " Povero disgraziato ! " she exclaimed, " Ha ammazzato il suo
          zio e la sua zia " (Poor unfortunate fellow ! he has murdered
          his uncle and his aunt).
               In 1882 he wrote in Alps and Sanctuaries (chap- iv.) :
          " If an accident does happen, they [the Ticinesi] call it a
          • disgrazia,' thus confirming the soundness of a philosophy
          which I put forward in a previous work." In 1oo1,when
          he was preparing the new and revised edition of Erewhon,
          he interpolated Signora Capocci's remark into chap, x.,
          " Current Opinions," and added an incident which had
          happened when we were together at Trapani in Sicily.
          On arriving at the station we saw the young coachman,
          Francesco Corona, with his cab ; and he accounted for our
          not having seen him on our recent visits to the town by
          telling us he had had " tre anni di militare e due anni di
          disgrazia " (three years of military service and two years
          of misfortune). The "disgrazia" was his way of saying
          that he had been in prison for shooting at his father with
          intent to murder him.

 u      MENDELSSOHN AND THE TAYLORS                        27
       Not only did the word disgrazia with its double 1835-1845
  meaning dwell in Butler's memory from childhood to age,
  but the effect produced on him by his early visit to Italy
  remained ineffaceable. It cannot be said to have laid the
  foundations of his great love for Italy, because the roots
  of that love were already in him ; but it revealed to him
  that he was born sympathetic to Italy, just as he was born
' unsympathetic to his father ; and he liked to remember
  that at the age of eight he had fallen in love with Italy at
  first sight, and that he remained faithful to her for the
  rest of his life.
       While a boy, Butler had lessons on the piano from
  the governess, and, possibly, there was a little elementary
  thorough-bass ; but that, I suspect, was later, when he
  was at Cambridge. His father, like Theobald, knew two
  tunes, " God save the Queen," and " In my cottage near
  a wood," and I have been given to understand that people
  were not always sure which he was whistling ; that, how
  ever, may have been the fault of the hearer.
       Links with the past always interested Butler, and he
  recorded many in his note-books. I give a few here with
  apologies for their being disconnected.
       It is stated at the end of the preceding chapter that
  Mrs. Philip Worsley's father, John Taylor of Bedford
  Row, was the eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. John Taylor
  of Norwich.       Their youngest child was Sarah, who
  became the wife of the celebrated jurist John Austin and
  the mother of Lady Duff Gordon, who was the mother
  of Mrs. Janet Ross, the author of Three Generations of
  Englishwomen referred to above (p. 17). John and
  Sarah Austin, when in Germany, made the acquaintance
  of Professor Mendelssohn, and gave him, for his cousin
   Felix, the composer, an introduction to Mrs. Austin's
  brother, John Taylor of Bedford Row. Felix Mendelssohn
  came to England in 1829 and visited John Taylor first
  in Bedford Row and afterwards at Coed-du, near Mold
  in Flintshire, where the family was then living. Mr.
  Taylor and his daughters were charmed by their guest,
  who composed a piece of music for each of the three
  young ladies ("Trois Caprices," Op. 16), and the Miss

          28                  STILTON CHEESE                        11
1835-1845 Taylor who afterwards became Mrs. Philip Worsley
          wrote a delightful early -Victorian account of the visit,
          which is reproduced in Grove's Dictionary of Music (art.
          Mendelssohn).
                Mendelssohn always visited the Taylors whenever he
          came to England, and Butler as a child frequently heard
          about him ; for the families constantly saw each other,
          the Worsleys staying with the Butlers at Langar and the
          Butlers visiting the Worsleys in London. Some echoes
          of the Elijah, produced at Birmingham in 1846 when
          Butler was about eleven, no doubt penetrated to Langar.
          And there was probably talk of Spohr, who was an
          intimate friend of another son of Mr. and Mrs. John
          Taylor of Norwich, namely Edward Taylor, Gresham
          Professor of Music.
               Old Mr. Brooke, who told Butler about the turbot at
          the christening dinner, saw Montgolfier's ascent in the
          first balloon that ever went up in England ; he was also
          present at the Handel Commemoration in 1784 where
          he may have seen both Haydn and Mozart.
               Butler's great-aunt, Miss Susannah Apthorp, remem
          bered Porson ; and, better still, knew an old lady who
          had sat upon Handel's knee.
               The Rev. J. Bradshaw of Granby used to tell Butler
          that Stilton cheeses were made not at Stilton but at
          Langar, which was in the heart of the best Stilton country.
         Stilton was a stopping-place on the Great North Road
         where time was allowed for lunch. The landlady of the
         inn was a Vale of Belvoir woman and would always have
         a cheese from her own neighbourhood on the table, and
         so they obtained their fame, which, until her time, had
          been local only ; since then they have borne the name
          not of the place where they were made but of that where
         they were made known.
               Butler remembered the " old Duke of Rutland "
          coming to lunch at the Rectory, Langar, when out
         hunting. This must refer to John Henry, the fifth duke
          (1778-18 5 7). No doubt he gazed on the local magnate
          with due respect; but what interested him was to know
          that he was looking on one who as a child had sat to Sir

„                        OLD WINE                             29
Joshua Reynolds (1 723-1 792), and that the picture was 1835-184$
hanging in Belvoir Castle among the family portraits.
     There was an old farmer at Langar, Roger Harrison,
who was born in the Old Style and died about 1841, aged
over ninety.
     Dr. Butler in his travels had met a wine-merchant
of Cologne who made a bet with him—I do not know
what it was about, probably some point of scholarship
or philology, classical history or geography. The wine-
merchant wagered a dozen of the oldest wine in his cellar,
lost, and paid in Rhenish which might have been drunk
by Shakespeare, for it was of the vintage of 1 6 1 1 . On
the death of the bishop what was left of this came to
Langar with the rest of his wine, and Butler as a boy
tasted it. It was the oldest wine he ever drank, but it
was no longer any good. There was also some Imperial
Tokay of 1795, the last vintage reserved for the use of
the Empress of Austria, which was excellent; and some
Chateau Lafitte and old port.
                       Claret and Port
    As a boy I used sometimes to taste claret at my father's
dinner-table when there was a party or guests in the house. I
got the taste well into my head. I never tasted claret again for
years but, when I did, I found it quite different : much more
like weak port wine. I could not make it out and supposed my
memory was at fault. But a few years ago I was dining with
my old college friend Jason Smith [at the New University Club,
St. James's Street], and after dinner there was some wine which
I at once recognised as the claret of my infancy. There was no
mistake about it. I asked Jason what the wine was. He said it
was Chateau Lafitte and very fine. I have no doubt my father
when I was a boy was finishing up my grandfather's cellar, for
he has never had any Chateau Lafitte since—at least he has never
given me any. [1883.]
    And so I was brought up on 1834 port and never taste
anything like port now. [1896.]
    The Inf1rmary Sermon at St. Chad's, Shrewsbury
    The sermon is annual and, till within the last three or four
years, the plate was handed round by the last new bride, in her

          30              LINKS WITH THE PAST                                 ..
1835-1845 bridal dress, and the last young lady who had come out, in her
          ball dress. These two ladies still go round with the plate, but
          they wear morning dress.
              Also the front pews were occupied by people bandaged and
          with splints on their arms and legs, as though undergoing surgical
          treatment for severe injuries — there being in fact nothing the
          matter with them, nor ever having been, and the whole thing
          being as big a sham as the Holy Communion itself. This—I
          don't mean the Holy Communion but the fictitious bandaging—
          has also been discontinued within the last three or four years.
          [1883.]
                                 B1shop Cartwr1ght
              He was one of the last, if not the actual last, of the non-juring
          Bishops and kept a chemist's shop in Shrewsbury till his death in
          the early years of this century. Lord Cornwallis, while Bishop
          of Lichfield, once surprised people in Shrewsbury very much by
          declaring that Cartwright was every whit as much a bishop as
          he was himself. My friend Mr. Phillips, the tailor, told me
          that Dr. Butler was the means of his being reconciled to the
          Established Church, but no trace of this has been found by me
          in my grandfather's papers. [1893.]


?i}aU:.r9* <.'".
                        IEWSBURY
J46 Butler was sent to school under th<
  won at Ailesley, near Coventry. On
                  ' Hawkdey Burhury, •-
       rewsbury School and at St. Jc;
      'ithhim. They remain© I
               Burbu               /as a F.
       1 the author of mathemati
                                        the age of
        rred to his school life at Allesi
       : would say something that
              about it. In Decembt
                         •nrri a medieval
           ated.1 It fat
             ch books never ought to i
                   1ed that such books v.
                    1m of divine service ;
      note ending thu
      >ia or 2. peripatetic cat like the one w
                    :cnt Danes are s'
                   - 't not mote than a yard a\
                                       h be h¦c wr

Y if Ox- <~--r
                                  CHAPTER III
                                         1846-1854
                       ALLESLEY AND SHREWSBURY
In January 1846 Butler was sent to school under the 1846
 Reverend E. Gibson at Allesley, near Coventry. One of Act. ,0
his schoolfellows was Samuel Hawksley Burbury, who
was afterwards at Shrewsbury School and at St. John's
College, Cambridge, with him. They remained on friendly
terms till Butler's death. Burbury, who was a Fellow of
the Royal Society and the author of mathematical and
scientific treatises, died in August 191 1 at the age of
eighty.
      Butler seldom referred to his school life at Allesley,
though occasionally he would say something that showed
he had not forgotten all about it. In December 1900
 Mr. Sydney C. Cockerell showed him a medieval service-
book, laboriously illuminated.1 It fatigued him to look
at it, and he said that such books never ought to have
been made.                 Cockerell replied that such books were
intended to relieve the tedium of divine service ; on
which Butler made a note ending thus :
     Give me rather a robin or a peripatetic cat like the one whose
loss the parishioners of St. Clement Danes are still deploring.
When I was at school at Allesley the boy who knelt opposite
me at morning prayers, with his face not more than a yard away
    1 In 19 14 Mr. Cockerell told me that this MS. was one of which he had written
an aeeount, and he gave me a copy ; it is entitled, A Psalter and Hours executed before
1ljofor a lady connected -with St. Louis, probably hit sister, Isabelle of France, Founder of
tie Abbey of Longchamp, new in tie collection of Henry Tata Thompson. Described by
S. C. Cockerell in relation n the companion Psalter of St. Louis in Paris, with photogravures
ofall the miniatures by Emery Walker (London : Printed at the Chiiwiclc Press, 1905).
                                              31

        32                     SALIVA BUBBLES                             m
  1S4S from mine, used to blow pretty little bubbles with his saliva which
Aet. 12 he would send sailing off the tip of his tongue like miniature soap
        bubbles ; they very soon broke, but they had a career of a foot
        or two. I never saw any one else able to get saliva bubbles
        right away from him ; and though I have endeavoured for some
        five and fifty years to acquire the art, I never yet could start the
        bubble off my tongue without its bursting. Now things like
        this really do relieve the tedium of church, but no missal that I
        have ever seen will do anything but increase it.
             Butler's education had been begun by his father, and
        when he went to Allesley he had already made some
        progress. What he says of Ernest in The Way of All
        Flesh, chap- xxvii., was true of himself :
            [Ernest] at twelve years old knew every page of his Latin
        and Greek grammars by heart. He had read the greater part of
        Virgil, Horace, and Livy ; he was proficient in arithmetic ; knew
        the first four books of Euclid thoroughly ; and had a fair know
        ledge of French. It was now time he went to school, and to
        school he was accordingly to go under the famous Dr. Skinner
        of Roughborough.
             In 1848 he left Allesley and went to school at Shrews
        bury under his grandfather's successor, Dr. Kennedy. On
        p. 207 of Ex Voto, speaking of the Crucifixion Chapel
        at Varallo and of one of the figures which he supposes
        to represent Stefano Scotto, under whom Gaudenzio
        Ferrari studied, he writes :
            I incline to think, then, that . . . Gaudenzio determined to
        introduce his master, just as I, if I were writing a novel, might
        be tempted to introduce a reminiscence of my old schoolmaster,
        and to make the portrait as faithful as I could.
             Ex Voto was published in 1888, and there was the
        MS. of The Way of All Flesh lying in his bureau with
        a reminiscence of his own old schoolmaster, Dr. Kennedy,
        under the name of Dr. Skinner, but in other respects as
        faithful as he could make it, all complete and ready for
        publication.
             Butler was fond of telling the story of the game of
        chess and the supper afterwards [The Way of All Flesh,
        chap- xxvii.). All the boys imitated the Doctor's manner,
        and Haycock (with whom the Doctor played this game)

m                      DR. BLOMFIELD                             33
imitated him particularly well and promulgated                  the 1848
story.                                                              Aet."
     Here are some notes about his school-days :
    When I first went to school at Shrewsbury there was no
railway yet open. The first railway opened was to Chester in
the autumn of 1 848, but for a few years there was none other ;
we used to post to Birmingham, a tedious journey of several hours,
but came back to school always by the Wonder Coach which
was still running. I remember the building of the present
railway bridge from beginning to end. I remember that one of
the boys in my bedroom wrote a poem on the opening either of
the Shrewsbury and Birmingham or the Stafford line—I forget
which was first opened ; I do not think it was a very good poem,
nor can I recall more than the last line, which enumerated the
stations between Wellington and Shrewsbury ; it ran :
    Admaston, Walcot, Upton Magna, and then comes Shrewsbury
which might almost seem to have been the model for the last
line of the last chorus of Narcissus, which runs :
                   Per cent annuities paid quarterly.
    One of the first events that happened in Shrewsbury after
I went there was the death of Dr. Darwin, Charles Darwin's
father. I never saw him, but remember that his death caused
some sensation. [Dr. Robert Waring Darwin died in 1848.]
                           Dr. Blomf1eld
    When I was quite a small boy at school, it must have been in
the autumn of 1849, 1850 or 1851, for I was quite small, I saw an
elderly gentleman in shovel-hat and gaiters coming down School
Lane and going up to call on Dr. Kennedy. I waylaid Thomas,
the Doctor's servant, and, on enquiry, learned that the visitor was
the Bishop of London, Dr. Blomfield. I knew nothing then of
the long and bitter quarrel between him and my grandfather, and
of their reconciliation and subsequent friendship ; but I knew that
a bishop could get a half-holiday if he chose to ask for one, and
I waited patiently till he came out. I was much afraid, but
I summoned up my courage, went to him, touched my hat,
and said :
    "Would you be so kind, Sir, as to ask for a half-holiday for
the boys ? "
    He was a nice, benign-looking old thing and said with a
smile:
    " But how do you know that I am able to get you one ? "
     VOL. I                                                 D

         34                        DR. KENNEDY                             m
  1850       I was afraid to say that I had asked Thomas and replied :
Aet. 14      « By your clothes, Sir."
              This made him laugh and he said :
              " Very well, I will write to Dr. Kennedy and ask for one."
              He d1d not inquire my name. If we were to meet now
         [1898] we should be more interested in one another, but I fear
         he would not be altogether pleased with my Lift and Letters of
         Dr. Butler.
               Years afterwards Butler again performed the feat of
         getting a half-holiday, and this time without the help of a
         bishop. He was staying at Shrewsbury with his father
         and sisters in 1883, and said at supper :
              "Well, I got a half-holiday for the boys out of Moss" [the
         head-master].
              My father was surprised and displeased.
              " Why how did you do that ? " said he with astonishment.
             " Oh/' said I, " I asked for it."
             "Well," said my father forcibly, "I do call that a piece of
        effrontery."
              I laughed and said : " Moss is very well able to take care of
        himself," and the matter dropped ; but my father did not like it ;
         it displeased him to see me able to do so much.
             One afternoon some five and forty years since, Kennedy
        called me up in a passage, I think of Thucydides, which contained
        the words ovk ^SwtjStj.
             " Parse r)8wrj6r]," said Kennedy.
             I knew very well that it meant " he was unable," but I was
        flurried by the initial t7 which it seemed to me should be e. With
        Kennedy I always was flurried and ill at ease, so I floundered into
        creating the very impossible verb dBvvaTta).
             "Sit down," said Kennedy, "and take five common penals."
             I did the penals in due course, but I did not look out rjSwrjOr}
        nor Svvapas, from which I, in reality, all the time knew that in
        some way or other .qSvvrjOr) must come.         Kennedy was quite
        satisfied with skipping me and giving me my 250 lines of Milton.
        He never said :
             "Look out Svvafms, and bring me up all its inflexions next
        lesson."
             For many a long year since, the incident has from time to
        time recurred to me, and, though I always resolved that I would
        one day scotch rfivvr)6.q, and understand why it was not iSv1rqOrf,

  h1                      AUNT BATHER                              35
  I never bothered to do so and the word has always been a standing 1850
  grievance with me ; not, heaven forbid ! because of Kennedy and Aet. 14
  the penals, but because of its beginning with .q and not t.
       A very few days ago—not a week—one evening it flashed
  across me that I would scotch iJSwijfl*;. I got down Liddell and
  Scott, turned up Swa/tat, and in less than half a minute I had
  laid the ghost of r/SwrjOt} for ever. At last !
       We were both of us very silly and very lazy ; but which of us
  was the sillier and lazier our Father which is in heaven knoweth,
  but I know not.
      By "us" I mean Kennedy and myself. [1895.]
       While Butler was at school his aunt, Mrs. Lloyd, was
  liv1ng at the Whitehall, which, as has been said (ante,
 p. 10), was hers for life under Dr. Butler's will. He
 used to go there to see her and her children, who were
 growing up. But I gather that he preferred going over
 to see his other aunt, Mrs. Bather, at Meole Brace, where
 Archdeacon Bather was incumbent (ante, p. 10). He
 made several notes about his aunt Bather which I have
 amalgamated into the following :
      I remember my aunt very well, for I was always going over to
 Meole when I was at school. She used (as all elderly aunts will
 do) to preach to me a good deal. One day she saw me eating
 bread and butter and honey. Brought up as she was during the
 early days of Dr. Butler's married life, while he was still poor, no
 doubt she had been allowed either bread and honey or bread and
 butter, but not bread and butter and honey. Such extravagance
 alarmed her ; and she said that it was not heard of in her youth,
 neither among the young people whom she knew, nor yet, as far
as she could gather, in any class of society.
     "Why, my dear," she said, "don't you remember, 'The
queen was in the parlour eating bread and honey '; she was not
eating bread and butter and honey."
     To which I, being I suppose then about 14 or 15, replied
that the Bible expressly enjoined us to eat butter with our
honey.
     " Butter and honey," it said, ushalt thou cat."
     Whereon she dropped the subject.
     It was she who used to say to me : " Unstable as water,
thou shalt not excel," as I have said in The Authoress of the
Odyssey without giving her name. A better, kinder soul never
breathed ; however much she preached she was always kind to
me, and I had great pleasure in giving her memory what tribute

         36              THE MUSIC OF HANDEL                                       1n
  1850 I could in my Life of Dr. Butler and in showing what an
Aet. 14 amiable woman she was and what charming letters she wrote.
        My great delight was to get her to play the overtures to
        Rodeltnda and Atalanta, which were her stock, pieces. She left
        me four volumes of Clarke's Handel which I treasured for many
        years till my cousin Reginald Worsley gave me the six volumes,
        whereon I gave him my four.
            I do not know under what circumstances he first
        heard the music of Handel ; I like to think it was when
        his aunt Bather played him the overtures to Rodelinda
        and Atalanta at Meole. Whatever the circumstances,
        Handel's music went straight to his heart and satisfied a
        longing which the music of other composers had only
        awakened and intensified ; and he became as one of the
        listening brethren who stood around " when Jubal struck
        the chorded shell," in the Ode on Saint Cecilia s Day.
                              Leas than    a    God   they thought there eould not
            That spoke so aweet.ly, That spoke ao aweet-ly        and   ao  well,  etc

 m             THE MUSIC OF HANDEL                                 37
     First hearing the music of Handel was the second 1850
 great event in Butler's life ; and thenceforward Italy and Aet. J4
 Handel were always present with him as a double pedal
 to every thought, word, and deed.
    Of all dead men Handel has had the largest place in my
thoughts. In feet, I should say that he and his music have been
the centra] fact in my life ever since I was old enough to know
of the existence of either music or life. All day long—whether
I am writing or painting or walking—but always—I have his
music in my head ; and if I lose sight of it and of him for an
hour or two, as of course I sometimes do, this is as much as I
do. I believe I am not exaggerating when I say that I have
never been a day since I was 13, without having Handel in my
mind many times over. [1883.]
     He often tried to like the music of Bach and
Beethoven, but had to give them up ; they bored him
too much. Nor was he more successful with the other
great composers ; Haydn, for instance, was a sort of
Horace, an agreeable facile man of the world ; while
Mozart, who must have been familar with Handel's music
for he wrote additional accompaniments to the Messiah,
failed to move him. It was not that he disputed the
greatness of these others, but he was out of sympathy
with them, and never could forgive the last two for
having led music astray from the Handel tradition and
paved the way from Bach to Beethoven.
     We now come to the first of Butler's letters which he
preserved.     The handwriting varies but the letters are
all well-formed. I have reproduced his early spelling
and punctuation because it seems to convey some of the
impetuosity of boyhood ; but I have not gone on doing
so after the first few letters because it looks too odd in
print and might easily worry the reader ; besides which,
both spelling and punctuation soon become conventional.
                      Butler to his Mother.
                                            Wednetday [Aug. 1850].
    Dear Mamma—I thought of you many times yesterday and
hope that you are not more tired than may be reasonably be
expected- and hope that there was no fulfillment of the prophecy

        38               EXAMINATION PAPERS                                 m
  1851 concerning a disappointment connected with the arrival of some-
Aet. 15 one at the house- according to the sybylline leaves alias the pack
        of cards. Here is the geography and history paper that Papa
        may see the sort of things that are asked I hope the map may
        give me some advantage as I'm certain no one else did one. I
        got up most of the things the night before but forgot that cape
        Athos was Monte Santo and that Sinus Pelasgiacus was gulf of
        Volo. My fountain Pirene was wrong. I placed Acheron too
         in Bceotia But else I was correct. NB the scribbling was not
         done in school. I think I have done a good examination and
        shall know on Saturday We began regular work this morning
        and are getting into the routine of things now. Five boys are
        left and five come. I shall be a monitor this half year ; that is
        shall have in turn to call over in our hall (about every three
         weeks) and on the strength of that have a Exercise excused ; and
         to be allowed to go home a day earlier and sit up tall 10 o'clock
        and have a room with fire and gas of an evening to sit in.
        Which is not bad but the reverse. With love to yourself and
        everyone about the place. I remain Your affect" Son,
                                                             S. Butler
             P.S. About the place means Tom, Harry, May, Miss
        Logie, Papa and in fact all within 10 miles round.           S. B.
             Tom is Butler's brother ; Harry is his sister Harriet,
        usually written " Harrie " ; May is his sister Mary ; and
        Miss Logie, I suppose, is the governess.
                              Butler to his Mother.
               [Re the Shrewsbury School Tercentenary.]
                                                             [Feb. ? 1851.]
             My dear Mama— Our last day is June 12 our first June 7.
        / should like of all things to go down though it will be a great
        squash most frightful. Many thanks for your practising, but I
        am really concerned that you should take so much trouble pray
        do not think of worriting yourself in that way. The Daffodils
        here have for a fortnight been in flower and the green is being
        sprinkled in the hedges. What a very lucky dog that Tom is
        I should like the measles to come to Shrewsbury- let him learn
        Syntaxis Minor in the Latin ; and not trouble much about
        anything else now that is the first thing. Then Prosody (which
        will be after Syntaxis Minor in the arrangement of the gramar).
        And then a part beginning with the Viri populi et Divi Menses
        montes atque rivi &c which is of very little importance. The

m               KENNEDY'S GRAMMARS                             39
greek gramar let him learn the Syntax first and then begin at 1851
the begining and go on. But when he goes back to Warwick Aet. 15
(nothing puts it out of one's head more than saying another
gramar) he will be obliged to say the Eton or whatever they do
there unless a line to Mr. Hill could save that. We are to have
a fancy ball ; I am not coming out a la Mr. Tupman as a
brigand with green velvet breeches well spangled though
certainly not posessing either of the disadvantages which the
aforesaid gentleman posessed namely being neither too old nor
too fat.     There is to be an oratorio got up with all. the
Manchester choir etc. (the first information is true the 2nd
I hold to be slightly apocryphal but still there is a semblance
of truth about it). With best love to Tom Papa and all I
remain Your affecte Son,                              S. Butler
     The " gramar " that he knew by heart when he left
Allesley was not the same as the one in use at Shrewsbury,
and he had to begin again, which threw him back
seriously. Here are two notes about Grammars.
                      Kennedy's Grammars
    As an example of the way in which everything affects
everything, I would say that these grammars have presumably
had a more powerful effect upon my life than probably any
other books that I have had anything to do with. When I went
to Shrewsbury at 12J years old I knew the Eton Latin and
Greek Grammars perfectly ; I had them at my fingers' ends
and could repeat every rule without a moment's hesitation. I
did not understand all the rules but I should have come to do
this, and, such as the rule was, I had its words well at command.
For I began Latin when only a few months over 4 years old,
and my father thrashed it into me (I mean physically) day after
day for years. I have no recollection of anything else. By
the time I reached Shrewsbury the lesson was thoroughly learned ;
but on reaching Shrewsbury I was told that all this was wrong
and I must learn Kennedy's grammar. If my father had been
there to keep on beating me, or if Kennedy had beaten me, I
should no doubt have mastered Kennedy's grammar, but nothing
short of this would suffice to make me do so. The consequence
was that I forgot the Eton grammars and never learned
Kennedy's, hence I never had a grammatical rule at command
at all when I was 17 or 18. I don't suppose this made much
difference ; yet I think I should probably have been three or
four places higher in the tripos if I had had the grammar at
my fingers' ends as I had when I was 12. If I had been higher

        4o               FRECK THE SHEPHERD                                 m
  1851 in the tripos I should have got a fellowship and stayed at
Aet. 15 Cambridge. Probably I should never have left Cambridge at
        all.    I am very glad Kennedy wrote his grammars, and that
        it all turned out as it did. [1885.]
                         Pastor 1gnavus dorm1t sup1nus
             This was translated in the old Eton grammar "The idle
        shepherd sleeps with his face upwards."       When I was a boy
        it used to puzzle me dreadfully why he should sleep with his
        face upwards rather than downwards or on one side. Neverthe
        less I took it as an interesting fact in Natural History, and
        believed I could always now distinguish an idle from an industrious
        shepherd by observing whether he slept with his face downwards
        or upwards. I was sure that Freck, Mr. Vincent Hall's shepherd
        [see post, p. 231], always slept with his face downwards ; but if
        you really wanted to know about a shepherd you must watch.
                                Butler to his Mother.
                                                           [Sept. 25, 1851.]
             Dear Mamma—I am glad you like your quarters : but can
        fancy how acceptable a letter must be. In the first place Tom
        and I think that a hamper at the end of November just before
        coming home is rather a paradox and therefore if it could be
        managed to be sent whilst Aunt Bather is at home she would
        see about it and it could come about a week after long holiday
        which begins next Tuesday it would be very pleasant provided
        it was convenient ; the inside would be left to Aunt Bather
         provided only that among other things it contains a veal pie.
         please tell Papa when next you see or write that I found the
         " Adiantum nigrum " (by the way you can't translate Adiantum
         therefore don't lie awake to think about it) growing on Haugh-
         mond hill and as it is almost exclusively a seaside fern it is a
         rather curious thing to find there ; I posess seven ferns in my
         case which really looks exceedingly pretty and thriving tho'
         it was some time before I could persuade the boys to believe
         in its existence without being watered ; and when they had
         vehemently spied to see that I didn't water it they became
         convinced but not half of them perceive the rationale of it I
         do flatter myself that I am improving slowly in my exercises ;
         in my theme the other day I talked of babies finding a great
         difficulty in walking the Dr. turned it to me and observed,
         " any Baby could find it easy to make such Latin as this ; why
         you cant saaoar " (spreading his arms as if he was going to fly)
         "you hop from twig to twig and seem afraid to venture two

1n          SHREWSBURY MATHEMATICS                               41
steps beyond the nest " this refers to my sentences being too 1851
short but still he gave me a better opinion of it and did not Aet. 15
punish me (there being no absolute errors of commission). My
 verses too (tho' they had a false quantity) he said were rather
 more in " the spirit of the thing," so I begin to have a better
hope. I get on very smoothly with Mr. Brown [Philip Browne
of Shrewsbury, an excellent artist. S. B.] I really think him
a very clever little man in other respects besides drawing his
 conversation is always very sensible. Tom has not been quite
 well he being very sick the other night but he was out of school
 for a day or two and came in to-day and I think he is better
 I do not think that he eats much trash on the whole but that
 day he had been eating some and I do not think he will eat
 much more for some time in consequence ; I am writing this
 while he is in topschools so he cannot add anything at present
 but I will tell him and prevail upon him to favour you with a
 private epistle on his own Account. I am very sorry to hear
 of Mr. Hall's indisposition and hope Mrs. Goodwin will be
 better I have just been interrupted in this letter to prove to
 the whole private room except More that when d = o, rad = o
 none of them being for some time able to comprehend the simple
 fact that 4 times o is o and all insisting that o times 4 is a very
 different thing from 4 times o ! ! ! ! and not above half believing
 that 5 times 6 = 6 times 5 ! ! ! ! so much for the mathematical
 education at Shrewsbury : it really has been a most animated
 argument. Well I will send Tom's love on speck and with my
 own I remain Your affectionate son,                   S. Butler
   Mrs Butler 14 Westover Terrace
       Bournemouth Poole Dorset.
      I suppose he means that if d equals nothing, then r
 multiplied by a multiplied by d equals nothing ; but I
 do not know why he should have employed these letters
 instead of the more usual x, y, z. Perhaps the unusualness
 of the letters helped to puzzle the boys.
      No doubt he had had lessons in drawing from the
 governess at Langar, just as he had lessons from her on
 the piano, and in Italy he had seen pictures in the galleries ;
 and no doubt his parents were urging him to " keep up "
 his music and his drawing, not foreseeing what the keeping
 up might lead to ; but this reference to Mr. Browne is the
 first allusion I have met with to his love for art. There
 are two allusions to Browne the drawing- master in
 Butler's Life of Br. Butler. In the letter of 1851 Butler

      42                 MR. PHILIP BROWNE                             m
1852 spells his name without the final "e," which he afterwards
      discovered should be there. " I once asked that excellent
      artist, the late Philip Browne of Shrewsbury, whether Dr.
      Butler had any taste for or knew anything about pictures.
      Mr. Browne's eyes twinkled shrewdly and he said, * No
     man ever less ' " (I. 147).
           " Mr. Philip Browne told me he drove round the
     archdeaconry with my grandfather in two successive
     summers and sketched every church at his desire "
     (I. 259-260).
                             Butler to his Mother.
          Shrewsbury School. Tuesday [Nov. 10, 1852] — All is
     full of last night's earthquake ; Mr. Burley and his wife found
     their bed moved and both got up in alarm ; Old Brown (the
     drawing master) did the same, some people even got out of bed
     and dressed and went into the streets, thinking that the founda
     tions of their houses were going, altogether it seems to have been
     greater than such things usually are in England. Some crockery
     was knocked down and two or three boys awoke at the schools
      by it. Then the thunderstorm on Friday, and the eruption of
     Etna last month doubtless had something to do with it, and I
     think it is an evident sign of a particularly hard winter. . . .
                         Butler to his Sister Harriet.
          Shrewsbury School. Sunday. [May or June 1853. They
     were all going abroad for several months. I was told that I was
     not to go, but in the end I was taken. S. B.]
          My dear Harr1e—I received your letter this morning and
     was indeed glad to find how much better you seem to be ; I
     answer you soon for fear that you and Mama should think that I
     am weeping because I am not to go ; I agree with Papa that time
     cannot be spared, and I assure you I am making the most of it and
     working very hard ; don't think that I shouldnt like to go : but
      the fact is I cant and there an end of it ; dont think this is sham
      resignation for it isn't ; the thing I regret most is the lengthy
      separation from you all.
          I have got a very bad place on my hand and have been in an
      unmitigated state of cold cream all last night and today. In
      fact I am holding not at all after the orthodox fashion.
           We have got the May races, school races I mean coming on

h1               SECOND JTALIAN TOUR                              43
shortly. I am a steward but shall not run ; not that I not 1853
well enough or otherwise incapacitated but the stewards are not Aet. 17
expected to run as they have the fixing of the ground and the
height of the hurdles.
     About what time do you meditate starting, what route, and
when return ? let me know all these as soon as you can ; likewise
what is to become of me during next Christmas holidays. We
arc all revelling here today in the warm and lying down on the
ball court hill by scores- vegetating certainly but it is only once a
week and that Sunday ; of course you have not, but has either
Papa or Mama been to the water-colour exhibition or whatever
exhibition it is that is going on, or to Exeter Hall or to Sydenham
to see the new building or to any of those places. I hope that
while you are out no war will come and keep you there for that
would be by no means a desirable consummation : I suppose you
 will get as far as Naples, pray give my respects to Zecchero.
     The post has gone without carrying this delectable epistle to
 the bag from which no traveller returns : I have shewn Auntie
 your letter and had tea there ; by which tho' I forgot it (I am
 happy to say) at the time I lost a great slice of rook pie ! ! which
 was waiting for me at the schools : since one of the postors has
 shot a lot lately ; the day after tomorrow three weeks I expect to
 go home.
     There is to be a great scientific meeting and lunch here on
 Tuesday. Dr. Lyon Playfair and a lot of swells are coming,
 the mayor and corporation and the d's corporation and ever
so many more are going to be taught to eat upon scientific
 principles which by the way the Dr. is a very capital proficient
in already. The Dr. will make a fool of himself as sure as
he's born.
     Farewell pray let Alice have the benefit of this I have used
her very shabbily ; give her my benediction and a kiss of peace
best love to Mama yourself &c. &c. I remain Your affectionate
Bother,                                                S. Butler
     P.S. While I am writing the rats are making an awful row
and squealing under the wainscot.
      I think " the d's corporation " must mean " the
Doctor's corporation." There was a good deal of dis
cussion as to whether or not Butler was to accompany
his family on this Journey to Italy : " the only thing
worth consideration for a moment," he wrote, " is whether
I should be fitter for a fellowship or pupils, &c. &c.
only in writing to the Dr. have you plainly made out

        44                  WATER-COLOURS                          1n
  1854 how I should stop a year longer than was otherwise
Aet. 18 intencleal ? . . . Pray let me hear the result post hasle. I
        almost hope to have a line tomorrow so as to be either
        cured or killed at once."
             Finally it was settled, and he went with them, missing
        the half year at school from August 1853 to January
         1854. They travelled through Switzerland to Rome and
        Naples. During this visit he continued his studies in
        Italian, and his early impressions of the country were
        intensified. He was also, of course, more intelligently
        interested in the pictures, being older and having made
        some progress with Mr. Browne.
             Among Butler's things which came to me after his
        death was a book containing eleven water-colour land
        scapes. They were all painted by Butler in 1854, his
        last year at Shrewsbury, and he had written against them
        where most of them were. They are entirely different in
        style from anything he did after he was grown up, and I
        think I see the influence of Mr. Philip Browne in all of
        them. I do not mean that Mr. Browne actually painted
        on these pictures—he may have done so—I only mean
        that they seem to me to show the influence of his
        instruction.
            Three are views of Shrewsbury, six are views of
        Langar, and two are unnamed. I gave one of the garden
        of the Rectory at Langar to Butler's nephew, Harry Butler,
        because he remembered the place ; the other ten I gave to
        the head-master of Shrewsbury School, explaining to him
        that they should be looked upon as souvenirs of Mr.
        Browne as well as of Butler.


            na-nm
       }&L¦i^.-^
y:%<^^

         '
-
     IS Miss Susanna;
               it-aunt-
           re about M
  45


                       CHAPTER IV
                            1854-1859
                          CAMBRIDGE
In 1854 Butler left Shrewsbury and went into residence »«54
at St. John's College, Cambridge. This is the first letter et. *
in which his handwriting appears to be settled so that one
can recognise it as his.
                       Butler to his Father.
    St. John's College, Cambr1dge. Nov. 6, 1854 — The
scholarships have come out this morning and I have got one ;
only five freshmen have ; how much mine is worth I do not
know ; but shall some day I suppose. . . .
    I go to Parkinson in Euclid on Tuesday, Thursday and
Saturday mornings from 8 to 9. To Headlam on Mondays
Wednesdays and Fridays at the same hour ; to Mayor's voluntary
composition lectures three times a week for two hours at a time ;
and to Reyner, arithmetic, twice a week : Parkinson and Headlam
and France are awfully jolly dons, far the nicest in the college :
 Reyner and Mayor are brutes. Bateson stopped me in the courts
a day or two ago and let me dandle his two fat fingers which
was very kind. I go to Aunt Susan's quite once a week and
she has told me never to go on Saturdays. . . .
     Aunt Susan, I suppose, means Miss Susannah Apthorp,
who knew the old lady who had sat upon Handel's knee ;
correctly speaking she was Butler's great-aunt—the sister
of his grandmother. There is more about Mayor in a
subsequent letter :
    For the first lecture we neither construed nor had any con
struing to us, but he simply told us " how to read," how he read,
                                 45

        46                LATIN DISPUTATIONS                            ,v
  1854 and how other people read ; and I never heard a better lecture. No
Aet. 18 less than six out-of-college men have mentioned the lecture to
         me and asked me what it was ; it spread about the university
         in a most amusing way. And the upshot of it all was, " Don't
             I dined in hall at St. John's College in November
         1910, and was introduced to Professor Mayor. He told
        me that Butler was the last man who read a Latin oration
        in the college chapel. I ought to have asked him for
        particulars, but omitted to do so at the time. Perhaps
         I was a little distracted, for I was there to read a paper
        on Buder to the Historical Society of St. John's in the
        Combination Room. On my return to London I wrote
        to Professor Mayor asking him to tell me more about the
        Latin oration, but I received no reply ; he died suddenly
        a day or two after I sent my letter. I spoke to the
        present Master of St. John's (Mr. R. F. Scott) about it,
        and he kindly gave me some information which he had
        obtained from Professor Mayor, from Canon Kynaston
       of Durham (whose name formerly was Snow), and from
        the Reverend Henry Russell of Layham Rectory, Hadleigh,
        Suffolk. I give an extract from Mr. Russell's letter. It
        seems that disputations in Latin were held in the college
        chapel, and that Butler and Canon Kynaston were among
       the last, if not the last, to dispute :
                    Rev. Henry Russell to Mr. R. F. Scott.
            8 July 1902—In my time, those who had taken good places
       in their first May examination had to write in their second year,
       two at a time, Latin dissertations on a subject approved, if I
       remember rightly, by the Father of the College. They had to
       take opposite sides and declare their dissertations in chapel
       immediately after evening service. This went on for several
       weeks, the number of these dissertations depending on the number
       of students who could reasonably be supposed competent to com
       pose in Latin. The disputants had to be ready in the ante-chapel
       in gown, and to ascend to the level of the fellows' stalls, one by
       the first gangway from the west on the Master's side, and the
       other by the opposite gangway on the President's side. They
       had their manuscript in their hand to refer to in case of need,
       but were expected not to require such aid. When one had

1t                   THE SIMEONITES                             47
finished the other followed. Each addressed the several con- 1855
stituents of his audience thus :                                   Aet. 19
 The Master                       as Magister Optime
 The President                    as Praeses Dignissime
 The Fellows                      asViri Reverendi etSpectatissimi
 The B.A.'s and Undergraduates as Juvenes Ingenui
     To a nervous person it was somewhat formidable.
      Readers of The Way of All Flesh will remember that
 " when the Simeonites distributed tracts, dropping them
 at night in good men's letter-boxes while they slept, their
 tracts got burnt or met with even worse contumely " ;
 and that Ernest went so far as to parody one of their
 tracts and to get it " dropped into each of the Simeonites'
 boxes." Ernest did this in the novel because Butler had
done it in real life.        Mr. A. T. Bartholomew, of the
 University Library, found, among the Cambridge papers
 in the late J. Willis Clark's collection, three printed pieces
bearing on the subject and belonging to the year 1855.
The first is a genuine Simeonite tract and has a note on
 it saying it was written by Ynyr Lamb of St. John's
 College (B.A. 1862) ; the other two are parodies. All
three are anonymous. At the top of the second parody
is written, " March 3 1st, by S. Butler." Mr. Bartholomew
 contributed an article, headed " Samuel Butler and the
 Simeonites," to The Cambridge Magazine for 1 March
 1913, wherein he gave extracts from a genuine tract
and the whole of Butler's parody. This article is repro
duced in A First Year in Canterbury Settlement, with other
Early Essays, by Samuel Butler (London : Fifield, 19 14).
                       Butler to his Father.
     22 March 1856—My plans for the summer are with (say)
 ^3 interest from my drawer (and from what Harrie tells me I
 gather that the interest since December will amount to about
that), ^5 you promised to lay by for me last October, and another
,£5 which has been accumulating at the bottom of my spill-case
since that period, to take a walking trip among the Norman
Churches for 3 weeks or a fortnight between the end of May
and the commencement of the Long. I shall then have a vacation
of about 4A weeks and would come home for a week or so and

        48               PROPOSED SWISS TOUR                              ,v
  1856 then proceed at once on my tour and back to Cambridge. The
Aet. 20 funds are ample for my purpose—for, in the first place, first
        class from London to Caen, including everything, is one pound
        (I am not joking) and I would stop as long as my money lasted,
        but I have a pressing and hearty invitation from a friend who
        lives at Caen to stay with him.
             I told him that I wanted to go about seeing the churches
        but he has urged me so that I think of spending a day or two
        with him. He is also thinking of accompanying me after I
        leave him if I will not stop longer with him or to go for as long
        a time and as far as our money holds out. There are excursion
        tickets from London to Lucerne in the summer (railroad all the
        way—every inch of it) at a very low price indeed, and from
        London to Paris is but 28/- first class (via Dieppe) and we might
        find ourselves cutting the churches if we got loose on the spree :
        it is about 24 hours work from Paris to Lucerne, and about
        80 francs more travelling expenses ; of course we should travel
        night and day to Lucerne, take one day's rest there, spend perhaps
         10 days in Switzerland and be back again : that however is but
        a castle in air, the churches would quite satisfy me and would
        be a cheaper trip than one in England : it would take less money
        than to travel an equal time at the Lakes or North Wales and the
        sound of a foreign tongue in one's ears, tho' for practical purposes
        not nearly so good as one's own, is yet a pleasurable one. How
        ever all this had better wait till we meet. My friend, Marriott
        by name, and I are anxious to find ourselves roaming on the
        loose somewhere, but like Lord Bateman are comparatively in
        different as to the precise locality.
              I do not know whether Butler went on this trip.
        The Marriott mentioned in the foregoing letter after
        wards became Sir William Thackeray Marriott, K.C.,
         M.P. for Brighton, 1880-93 ; he was Judge Advocate
        General and died 27th July 1903. "Tom" mentioned in
        the succeeding letter was Butler's brother, who had also
        come up to St. John's College from Shrewsbury. Some
        one (I have forgotten who it was) who remembered Tom
        Butler at Cambridge, told me that he had inherited his
        father's taste for botany and used to botanise while he was
        an undergraduate.
                                Butler to his Father.
             [Cambr1dge Un1on Soc1ety] Nov. 26, 1856. Joh. Coll.—
         Supposing that this will reach you on your birthday I write to

r»                        WALMISLEY                               49
 wish you many happy returns of it as well as to thank you for 1856
 your letter to me. I am happy to say that my health is excellent Aet 20
 and that I actually was able to extract praise from old Shilleto for
 a bit of Greek prose the other day : I told him I thought he'd
 better not say so again, whereat we both laughed.
     I and Tom are let in for a tea-party there tonight ; this
 bitterly cold thaw is not certainly tempting weather to stir out
 in, much less at night and on such an errand ; but nevertheless it
 must be done. Tom has never been there before, and I don't
 fancy he'll want to go again. The Harvey Goodwins asked me
 to an evening party on Wednesday. I went as I could not help
 myself: it, too, was exquisitely dull.
     We had a great treat in Sterndale Bennett's playing at
 the University concert. He behaved most handsomely and
 gentlemanly, accompanying the worst singers in the greatest
 trash and keeping his playing in the background most gracefully ;
 in fact he took the place by storm. . . .
      I shall have no visible result to show on the pianoforte and
 have scarcely played a dozen hours the whole term, Sundays
 included.
       He may have begun to learn a little thorough-bass at
 Cambridge, but he does not speak of it in his letters ; it
 would appear that his musical studies at this time were
 confined to practising the piano, learning pieces by Bach
 and Schubert, and finding out that Beethoven had written
 sonatas.      I suppose that Ernest's friendship with the
 organist of St. Martin's at Roughborough, is founded
 on Butler's having known Walmisley. Here are a few
 notes about his attitude towards music about this time.
 The first was made in 1889 after a visit to Cambridge,
 where he dined in hall with the Master of Trinity, Dr.
 Montagu Butler.
                             Walm1sley
     I remember Walmisley very well. I have often watched him
 play ; no man's face could be more emotionless and no player's
 action could be more quiet and free from affectation than his.
 I was too young to be able to judge intelligently nor can I
 remember one single bar of the many slow movements which
 I have heard him, and seen him, improvise ; nevertheless, an
abiding impression remains with me that he was the finest
 extemporiser upon the organ that I have ever heard. He used
 to improvise always before the anthem when there was music,
     VOL. I                                                  E

         50                      BEETHOVEN                               1v
  1856 which, on an average, was, I suppose, about three times a week.
Aet. 20 I never saw him drunk, but it used to be said that he sat upon
         the keys of the organ one night at Trinity. The Master of
        Trinity told me that this was true, but I must have better
        authority than Dr. Butler's before I believe one word of it.
         Returning to my remarks on Walmisley let me repeat that my
        opinion of his merits is absolutely worthless ; all I know is that
        he left a deep impression on me, whereas Sterndale Bennett,
        whom I also met at Cambridge, at a wine at Sykes's, did not
        please me.
                                    Beethoven
             Beethoven was a terra incognita to me till I went up to
        Cambridge ; I knew and liked a few of his waltzes, but did not
        so much as know that he had written any sonatas or symphonies.
        At Cambridge Sykes tried to teach me Beethoven but I disliked
        his music and would go away as soon as Sykes began with any
        of his sonatas. After a long while I began to like some of the
        slow movements and then some entire sonatas, several of which
        I could play once fairly well without notes. I do not know
        whether I really liked them or found myself carried away by the
        strength of the Beethoven current which surrounded me ; at any
        rate I spent a great deal of time on Beethoven for some ten
        or a dozen years : but from the night (some 20 years since) on
        which I heard old Smalley (Rector, I think, of Bayswater) say
        that Handel was the greatest of musicians, Beethoven began to
        go back ; and now I feel towards him much as I did when I
        first heard his work, except, of course, that I see a y1wis in
        him of which as a young man I knew nothing. But I do not
        greatly care about yv<3cris, I want dyom/ ; and Beethoven's
        dydirq is not the healthy robust tenderness of Handel, but a
        sickly maudlin thing in comparison. Anyhow I do not like
        him. I like Mozart and Haydn better, but not so much better
       as I should like to like them. [1886.]
                                     Handel
             As a boy from 12 years or so I always worshipped Handel.
        At Cambridge when Sykes began to play Beethoven I would
        leave the room ; gradually I began to like him, and then I
        played him and Bach and Mendelssohn's Songs without Words
        and thought them lovely ; but I always liked Handel best.
        Little by little, however, I was talked over into placing Handel
        and Bach and Beethoven on a par as the greatest, and I did not
        know which was the best man. One night, when I was almost

  IV                         HANDEL                                51
  30, I was at an evening party at Mrs. Longden's and met an 1857
  old West End clergyman of the name of Smalley. I said I did Aet. 21
  not know which was greatest—Handel, Bach, or Beethoven.
      He said, " I am surprised at that ; I should have thought you
  would have known."
      " Which," said I, " is the greatest ? "
      « Handel."
      I knew he was right and have never wavered since. I sup
 pose I was really of this opinion already, but it was not till I got
 a little touch from outside that I knew it.
                  Handel and Ernest Pont1fex
      It cost me a great deal to make Ernest play Beethoven and
 Mendelssohn : I did it simply ad captandum. As a matter of
 fact, he played only the music of Handel and of the early Italian
 and old English composers—but Handel most of all.
       This means that Ernest was less easily humbugged
 than Butler, but that his creator thought it better not to
 overdo the robust side of his hero's temperament—it
 might have led him too far away from his model who, as
 will appear later, played Bach's fugues in New Zealand.
      In a letter of April 28, 1857, thanking his father for
 making up his funds, there are projects for another tour
 on the continent and a postscript referring to his brother
 Tom : " Have you heard of our near relative's declension
 of ' quivis ' in the little-go ? It was sheer nervousness or
 I would not say it, but it was grand : ' Quivolo, quivis,
quivult.' "
      Ernest's Cambridge life is taken from Butler's own
life. One of his friends and contemporaries, the Rev.
Canon Joseph M'Cormick, D.D. (1834- 19 14), whose
acquaintance I made after Butler's death, when he was
Rector of St. James's, Piccadilly, told me that Butler was
considered to be a reading man ; yet he would occasionally
look on at a cricket match by way of recreation. But he
never took any interest in games of any kind. The only
game I ever saw him play was patience, and he did not
really care for that ; he only played it because it was
a change of occupation before going to bed. As he was
carried away by the Beethoven current, so probably he

         52                   LADY MARGARET                                  IV
  1857 was carried away by the athletic current, and, like Ernest,
Aet. 2 1 ne j0ineci the boat club ; he even coached and steered his
         college boat.
               Canon M'Cormick told me of a mishap that occurred
         on the last night of the Lent races in 1857 to the Lady
         Margaret first boat which had been head of the river
         since 1854. Canon M'Cormick was rowing 5 ; Canon
         Kynaston of Durham (whose name, as I have said above,
         was formerly Snow) was stroke ; P. P. Pearson (after
         wards P. Pennant) was 7 ; and the coxswain was Butler.
         I quote from a letter written by Canon Kynaston, 8 July
         1902 :
              He [Butler] dropped the starting rope across the rudder lines
         so that the bows were turned sharply to the left towards the
         Ditton shore, and just below First Post Corner we were close to
         the bank and Second Trinity's bows almost level with our rudder.
          I said to P. P. P., " You must back " at the same moment as he
         said, " I suppose I must back." So we got straight and had to
          turn the corner outside our pursuers, escaping by a hair's breadth.
          Again at Grassy they made a desperate attempt to bump, but
          failed ; and after that we were safe. If P. P. and I had not
          kept our heads we should have been bumped, and we could
          not have returned the compliment next night. But it was an
          unforgettable incident.
                                 Butler to his Mother.
                                                    Joh. Coll. 11 March 1857.
               Dear Mama—My foreboding about steering was, on the last
          day, nearly verified by an accident which was more deplorable
          than culpable, the effects of which would have been ruinous had
          not the presence of mind of No. 7 in the boat rescued us from
          the very jaws of defeat. The scene is one which can never fade
          from my remembrance, and will be connected always with the
          gentlemanly conduct of the crew, in neither using opprobrious
          language nor gestures towards your unfortunate son, but treating
          him with the most graceful forbearance ; for in most cases when
          an accident happens which in itself is but slight, but is visited
           with serious consequences, most people get carried away with the
           impression created by the last, so as to entirely forget the
           accidental nature of the cause ; and if we had been quite bumped
           I should have been ruined. As it is I get praise for coolness and

1v                         STEERING                            53
good steering as much as, and more than, blame for my accident ; 1857
and the crew are so delighted at having rowed a race such as Aet. 21
never was seen before that they are satisfied completely. All the
spectators saw the race and were delighted : another inch and I
should never have held up my head again. One thing is safe,
it will never happen again. Love to Harrie and May.—Your
affectionate son,                                    S. Butler.
                       Butler to his Mother.
   May 6, 1857—^             's good enough himself, he is only
gawky and uncouth ; but he is never a man that I could ever
become in any way intimate with ; and so, I suppose, considering
me a " bloated aristocrat," in company with all the rest of the
Lady Margaret boat club, he has determined to have none of us,
in which case his spirit is to be admired tho' his judgement and
appreciation are very reprehensible. . . . With good luck we
shall remain easily head of the river, to the great chagrin of the
First Trinity boat club, who have been speculating immensely on
the success of their boat and talking as if the place would not
hold them ; just when matters were looking rather lugubrious
for us some beautiful freshmen got ripe under my assiduous
coaching, and we now do the course in less time than any other
boat.
    As we go over the course day by day there are plenty of gigs
and traps running by our sides, and men, too, timing us and
noticing every stroke ; one feels very big and very responsible
with the knowledge that if you steer a foot too wide round a
corner or don't keep the boat's head quite straight, but budge
a little bit to the one hand or the other, your misdeed is looked
upon with untenable satisfaction or the contrary by heaps of foes
or friends of the boat. One thing is noticeable, namely, that the
men on the bank always time us in shorter time than we do
ourselves ; they say we do the course in 8.30 minutes, we say
in 8.45, which shows that we don't cheat ourselves into the idea
that we are going better than we are. Still, First Trinity have
a very strong crew and may improve and beat us ; the races
commence on the 12th.
     There are many letters from Butler to his father full
of details about his reading and the chances of the
candidates for the various examinations, the Bell Scholar
ship and the Craven. These letters are not of any
general interest ; they were written, I suppose, chiefly to
please his father, who was interested in such news.

        54                   CANON M'CORMICK                              1v
                               Butler to his Father.
  1857       Oct. 23, 1857—Day-light reading does not in the least affect
Aet. 21 them [his eyes], so I have been out of bed by a quarter past 5
        every morning lately and into bed by 10 at night, get a cup of
        tea by 6 in the morning and read till 9, breakfast and amusement
        till 10, read from 10 to I, go to Shilleto •$• past 6 to \ past 7 (I
        don't care about that at all). Well, then there is music from
        1 to 2 and exercise from 2 to 4 and music from 4 to 5 and dinner
        at 5 ; so when I come back from Shilleto I am pretty glad to
        have done the day's work. Of course drawing goes to the dogs.
         I am exceedingly well in every respect but my eyes, and they
        are mending. This is all about myself, but I can think of no
        more agreeable topic (!). It is pouring wet, the river flooded,
        and Snow says I am to steer at 2 o'clock which hour is just on
        the point of approaching. I shall not steer for Snow or anybody
        else.
              Soon after Butler's death Canon M'Cormick wrote a
        letter of reminiscences to The Times. I give part of it
        here because it shows in a charming way the effect
        produced by Butler upon one who, in spite of differences
        of opinion, retained an affectionate remembrance of him
        till the end of his life. It might have been thought that
        The Fair Haven and Erewhon Revisited, to say nothing
        of various passages in Butler's other books, would have
        shaken their friendship ; but I have had many talks with
        Canon M'Cormick about Butler and he invariably spoke
        of him in the spirit of this letter.
            The Rev. Canon Joseph M'Cormick, D.D., to the Editor
                                  of The Times.
              27 June 1902 — The friends of Mr. Samuel Butler must
        have read your biographical sketch of him with deep interest.'
         He certainly was no common man. He was too versatile a
        genius ever to be in the front rank of one particular line, and
        he had too much fun about him to be really serious when he
      Cought to have been. No one hated shams, when he thought
        he detected them, more than he did ; and he could not restrain
         his ridicule and biting sarcasm when an opportunity presented
         itself of using them. At one time he was a musician ; at another
        an artist ; at a third he was a theologian—at least he took upon
        himself to criticize what he imagined was theology. For about

1t            FIRST LITERARY EFFORTS                          55
two years he read for mathematical honours, and then, according 1859
to his tendency, he turned his attention to classics ; and such Aet. 23
was his ability, and so valuable was his Shrewsbury training,
that he came out f1rst class in the classical tripos. . . .
    Samuel Butler, I fancy, lived too much alone. He had no
corrective influence. He went his own way, which was a bit
eccentric, according to his own sweet will. We must not
altogether judge him as we would other men. But, say the
best or the worst of him, I am myself satisfied that he was far
better than what might be called his creed ; and, coupled with
unique intellectual powers, there was childlike simplicity and a
heart full of the warmest and most constant affection for his
friends.
     Canon M'Cormick showed me two old Cambridge
note -books in which he had copied "Elegies, Plays,
Satires, etc., written by College friends." In speaking
of Butler's contributions to these note-books he always
called them "skits," and the part omitted from the
foregoing letter refers to them and quotes one. I have
omitted this part of the letter because these "skits,"
together with information concerning them, are now
collected in A F1rst Tear in Canterbury Settlement, with
other Early Essays, by Samuel Butler. Edited by R. A.
Streatfeild (London : Fifield, 19 14). The one quoted by
Canon M'Cormick in his letter to The Times appears in
 the book as "The Two Deans I." The Canon sent
some of the others to The Eagle after Butler's death, and
some appeared in The Eagle in Butler's youth.                The
Eagle, " a magazine supported by members of St. John's
College," was started in the Lent term 1858, and in the
Lent term 1889 celebrated the attainment of "thirty years
and more " by issuing a number containing a retrospective
article by the Rev. J. M. Wilson (afterwards Canon of
Worcester). This article states that Butler was at one time
a senior editor of the magazine. Butler kept a copy of this
article and made a note on it saying that he never was
an editor of The Eagle. He wrote in it, and an article
by him, " On English Composition and Other Matters,"
signed " Cellarius," appeared in the first number and is
given in A First Tear (1914). From this article I take
 these sentences :

        S6                       "OUR TOUR"                                1v
  1859       Most readers will have anticipated me in admitting that a
Aet. 23 man should be clear of his meaning before he endeavours to give
        to it any kind of utterance ; and that, having made up his mind
        what to say, the less thought he takes how to say it, more than
        briefly, pointedly, and plainly, the better. . . .
            There is no shame in being obliged to others for opinions ;
        the shame is not being honest enough to acknowledge it. I
        would have no one omit to put down a useful thought because
        it was not his own, provided it tended to the better expression
        of his matter and he did not conceal its source ; let him, however,
        set out the borrowed capital to interest.
             These extracts from what was probably the first
        composition by Butler that ever appeared in print show
        that when he was about twenty -two he had already
        discovered and adopted the principles of writing from
        which he never departed.
             Another article by Butler, also signed " Cellarius,"
        appeared in the fifth number of The Eagle in 1859. It
        is also included in A First Tear (19 14) and is entitled
        " Our Tour." This tour was made by Butler in June
        1857 with Joseph Green (whose name he Italianised into
        Giuseppe Verdi).         They went to Grenoble and from
        there through the Dauphine by diligence and on foot—
        one day walking forty-two miles—to Turin and thence to
        Arona ; they rowed over to the other side of the lake,
        which was then Austrian territory, and saw the Castle
        of Angera where S. Carlo Borromeo was born (cf. Alps
        and Sanctuaries). They went up the Lago Maggiore,
        crossed the Simplon, and returned by Grindelwald,
        Meiringen, the Furca, Hospenthal, Amsteg, Lucerne,
        Basel, Strasburg, Paris, Dieppe, London.               The article
        professes to be written to show how they got so much
        into three weeks and spent only £25. They really did
        not spend so much, for after reaching London he
        concludes thus :
            Next day came safely home to dear old St. John's, cash in
        hand yd.
            From my window in the cool of the summer twilight I look
        on the umbrageous chestnuts that droop into the river ; Trinity
        library rears its stately proportions on the left—opposite is the
        bridge—over that, on the right, the thick dark foliage is blackening

 1v              ROOMS AT ST. JOHN'S                            57
almost into sombreness as the night draws on. Immediately 1859
beneath are the arched cloisters resounding with the solitary foot- Aet. 23
fall of meditative student, and suggesting grateful retirement. I
say to myself, then, as I sit in my open window, that for a con
tinuance I would rather have this than any scene I have visited
during the whole of our most enjoyed tour—and fetch down a
Thucydides, for I must go to Shilleto at nine o'clock tomorrow.
     This description of the view from his windows agrees
with the fact that his rooms at St. John's were at D,
New Court, across the river, top storey but one ; not
in the third court as stated in error in A First Tear
(19 14). I am indebted to the Rev. Dr. T. G. Bonney,
F.R.S., who was at St. John's with Butler, and to Mr.
John F. Harris, also of St. John's, for assistance in
identifying Butler's contributions to The Eagle, and also
in identifying his rooms.

                               CHAPTER V
                                   1858-1859
                                   HERESY
  1858 " Ord1nat1on was the road which Theobald knew and
Aet. 22 understood, and indeed the only road about which he
         knew anything at all, so not unnaturally it was the one
         he chose for Ernest" {The Way of all Fleshy chapter
       1 xlv.). Similarly it had always been taken for granted
         by Canon and Mrs. Butler that their eldest son was to
         follow in the footsteps of his father and grandfather and
         become a clergyman. In common with all his friends
         and companions Butler had been taught to accept the
         Christian miracles as self-evident propositions and to
         believe in a personal anthropomorphic God. He had,
         at this time, never met any one who entertained a doubt
         on the matter. If he or any of his undergraduate friends
         had met such a doubter they would have cut him. None
         of his masters at school, none of his tutors at Cambridge
         had ever hinted that there was another side to the
         question of Christian evidences. This may seem strange
         now, but it should be remembered that between 1844,
         when The Vestiges of Creation was published, and 1859-
          1860, when The Origin of Species and Essays and Reviews
         appeared, nothing happened that could give serious
         uneasiness to orthodoxy.
             On 15th February 1879 Butler opened a correspondence
         in The Examiner on " A Clergyman's Doubts." From
         the first letter, signed " An Earnest Clergyman," I take
         this passage which is similar to a passage at the opening
         of chapter xlvii. of The Way of All Flesh.


            ith all
       ind E
is sin

j rrm a bJsvtctM-u.bh m.aWr wt Uattsvritlnr
              S.iuvylllaUL* Sh.ac.


                      GOSPEL DISCORD                               59
     When I was at Cambridge the Evangelical movement had 1858
become a matter of ancient history ; Tractarianism had spent Aet. «
its force and had subsided into a nine days' wonder ; The Pestiges
of Creation had long since ceased to be talked about ; the Catholic
aggression scare had lost its terrors ; Ritualism was still unnoticed
by the general public ; the Gorham and Hampden controversies
were hull -down beneath Time's horizon ; Dissent was not
spreading ; the Crimean war was the engrossing subject in men's
thoughts, and there was no enemy to the faith which could
secure even a languid interest ; at no time, probably, in the
century could an ordinary observer have detected less sign of
coming disturbance than at the date of which I am writing.
     Butler began to reflect that all he knew about what
he should be called upon to teach had been picked up,
as it were, second-hand ; and before taking such a
momentous step as being ordained it seemed to him
that he ought to clear his mind, start fresh, and consider
the matter for himself. He read Dean Alford's notes on
the Gospels, and, no doubt, other commentaries ; but he
did not consider himself bound by any one else's opinions ;
it was interesting to know what others thought and their
reasons for thinking as they did, but his business in
 preparing himself for his high calling was to find what
 reasons he himself had for holding the Christian faith.
 Consequently Ernest does much the same thing.
     When he [Ernest] had finished Dean Alford's notes he
 found them come to this, namely, that no one yet had succeeded
 in bringing the four accounts into tolerable harmony with each
 other, and that the Dean, seeing no chance of succeeding better
 than his predecessors had done, recommended that the whole
 story would be taken on trust ; and this Ernest was not prepared
 to do (chapter lx.).
      Butler did not get quite so far as this until later. He
 naturally had a passion for doing things thoroughly, and
 set to work to make a close study of the Greek Testament ;
 there, if anywhere, he should find all that was known
 about the origin of the Christian faith ; to read only
 commentaries would be a lazy way of shifting the re
 sponsibility on to other shoulders, unless he merely wanted
 to know what other people had written upon the subject ;
 the book itself was the fountain-head, and from it he

        60                    PARISH WORK                           v
  1858 ought to be able to get materials for forming his own
Aet. 22 0pinion. j^e had no interest in proving to himself or
        others that the Christian religion was, or was not, the true
        faith ; but he had a very strong desire to find some ground
        for forming an opinion as to whether it were true or not.
        He did not actually retranslate it, as his great-great
        grandfather John Worsley had done, but he read it and
        re-read it with all the care and attention of a particularly
        careful and attentive nature. St. John's College, Cam
        bridge, possesses two copies of the Greek Testament
        which belonged to Butler, and in which he made marginal
        notes. I imagine that he wanted more than one copy
        for convenience in travelling,—keeping one at Cambridge
        and the other at Langar, for instance. The notes do
        not extend over the whole of the two books ; and I think
        he must have had a third copy, now lost, with notes
        covering the parts un-adnotated in these two copies.
             He was bracketed 12th in the Classical Tripos of
         1858, and then went to London and began to prepare for
        ordination, living and working among the poor as an
        amateur lay assistant under the Rev. Philip Perring, who
        had been an old pupil of Dr. Butler at Shrewsbury, and
        was at that time curate ' in the parish of St. James's,
        Piccadilly. On the death of his father in 1866 he became
        the Rev. Sir Philip Perring, 4th Baronet.              Canon
        M'Cormick told me that when one of the young men
        in the night school asked Butler why a good and all-
        powerful God should have permitted the existence of evil,
        Butler replied :
             " My good man, don't you see ? If Adam had not
        eaten the apple you would now be in the Garden of Eden ;
        whereas, things being as they are, you have a chance of
        Heaven, which is a much better place."
             He lodged in Heddon Street, Regent Street, and his
        life there is faithfully presented as Ernest's life in Ashpit
        Place, except that he was never ordained as Ernest was ;
        nor did he then lose any money—he had then no money
        to lose ; nor did he ever go to prison ; nor was there
        anything in Butler's life to correspond with the Miss
        Maidand incident ; on the contrary, there had already

t                  RELIGIOUS DOUBTS                        61
been inc1dents which would have disqualified him from 1859
deserving the reproach addressed by the magistrate to et. IJ
Ernest, that, in spite of his education, he had not even
the common sense to be able to distinguish between a
respectable girl and one of a different sort (chapter lxii.).
 During his Heddon Street days he continued his study of
the Greek Testament ; and, while doing his parish work,
accidentally discovered that one of the boys in his evening
class had not been baptized.           Thereupon he made
enquiries as to which of the boys had, and which had not,
 been baptized ; and was seriously and painfully shocked
 to find, first, that a large proportion of them were still
unbaptized ; and, secondly, that no one, merely judging
 by their conduct and character, would ever have been
 able to separate the sheep from the goats.
      The immediate effect of this was that his faith in the
efficacy of infant baptism was shaken—if he can be said
 to have had any faith in a matter which he had not till
 then considered. He declined to be ordained and this
 raised the question of what he was to do instead. In
 the meantime he returned to Cambridge, intending to
 try for pupils, and, if possible, get a fellowship later on.
 His father was dismayed—not unnaturally, perhaps—and
 there was a long and painful correspondence. In The
 Way of All Flesh Ernest does not refuse to be ordained ;
 this was because Butler wanted him to take orders before
 finding out that he did not believe. It seemed, however,
 a pity to waste all this correspondence ; he therefore
 stiffened Theobald's back for the occasion, and made the
 kicking at ordination come from him instead of from
 Ernest, so that George Pontifex might write Canon
 Butler's letters, or letters as like them as the alteration
 of circumstances allowed (ch. viii.). Theobald was not
 a good kicker ; but Butler thought that what he made
 him do would not appear incompatible with his character
 since it was done in his youth—it would pass as a kind
 of wild oat. And as for the character of George Pontifex,
 the letters helped materially to show him as a bullying,
 irritable, stupid old turkey-cock, which is what he had
 gathered from hearsay that his own grandfather, Dr.

         62                 PROSPECTS IN LIFE                             v
  1859 Butler, was. This misrepresentation of the bishop was
Aet. 2J one of the chief reasons why he wanted to rewrite the
         George Pontifex part of the book.
              I do not give here Canon Butler's letters because I
         have not applied to his legal personal representatives for
        permission to reproduce them. I reflected that permission
        would probably be refused, and Butler would not have
        liked me to court a snub ; on the other hand it might
        be granted, and Butler would not have liked me to put
        myself under an obligation. In The Way of All Flesh
        the letters are fewer and shorter than they were in real
        life, partly because Theobald was easily subdued, and
        pardy because the episode, affecting only Theobald and
        not Ernest, was not of prime importance.
                                Butler to his Father.
            Joh. Coll. Mar. 10, 1859—I hope that you will reconsider
       your wish that \ should leave the university.
            At Torquay it was settled that I should come up here, try
        for pupils, and if possible get a fellowship at another college.
            [If I had remained at St. John's I should have probably got
       a fellowship. Stanwell of my year, also a Johnian, got one ;
       he was only 20th in the first class whereas I was bracketed 12th.
       I cannot doubt that the fellowship he got would have been given
       to me. / am very glad it never was, for like enough I should
       have stuck on at Cambridge till now !—July 15th 1901, S. B.]
            I have had no chance of a fellowship at another college
       yet. . . . Neither for pupils have I had a fair chance—no one
       knowing that I was to be up this term save one or two just at
       the very end of it. . . . If, however, you still desire me to leave
       this place I really know nothing in this country to which I could
       turn my hand. A person when once he adopts ideas out of the
       common way, whether he be right or whether he be wrong he
       is done for here. I see that very plainly. The thing I would
       most gladly do is emigrate. I have long wished to do so, but
       said nothing about it because Tom has already gone ; but upon
       my word, if you bid me suggest anything, it is the only thing I
       can think of which would be at once congenial to my feelings
       and likely to fill my pocket. . . .
             And he concluded with a suggestion that the place
       should be Liberia and the employment cotton-growing.

v                   DRAWING LESSONS                            63
On the same day, or the next, he wrote to his mother 1859
hoping that his letter to his father of the 10th March Aet. 23
was not calculated to annoy him "though I tear it was
not very sane," but it had to be written in a hurry. He
continues :
     Had he said to me : "I give you this allowance till you can
make something of your own, and then, when you can find your
own living, it will cease," I could readily understand his feeling
hurt and vexed that I should be spunging on him and not
finding something to do as speedily as possible, which of course
any gentleman would do. But when he said that he would give
it me over and above anything else I could make, you, I know,
will understand how galling it must be to a person to have the
threat of "docking one's allowance" (as if I had done something
scandalous) offered on so short a notice. You cannot imagine
how cut up I have been about it, and how thoroughly undeserved
I feel such language to be. . . .
    There is a Cambridge School of Art established here, and
I have joined it and am receiving first-rate drawing lessons
which I enjoy exceedingly. Tamplin superintends my music.
      Unfortunately for Liberia, Canon Butler, having been
inoculated by Charles Darwin with a taste for botany,
was in a position to speak with authority about cotton,
and that " not very sane " scheme had to be given up.
This led to a compromise that he was to stay on at
Cambridge for the present — which may have been
rendered acceptable to his parents by the fact of his
having two pupils. It must have been at this time that
he was sent to examine a school at Bolton :
    I was to have my travelling expenses paid and was going to
charge 2nd class fare when Mr. Jacques, the head-master, hearing
of my intention, said to me rather sternly :
    " Young man, there are two classes of people in this world :
there are those who prey and those who are preyed upon : never
you belong to the latter."
    So I charged first class fare and travelled 2nd.
      On 5th April 1859 he writes home a cheerful, breezy
letter about his progress in art, perhaps injudicious,
certainly not calculated to mollify his father.
     I am getting on very nicely with my drawing : I go twice
a week from 11 till 1 to the Art School. I commenced with

        64                A MODERN PELAGIAN
  1859 curved symmetrical lines—very difficult indeed to copy accurately.
Aet. 23 I then went through a course of hands and am now going through
        a course of feet ; I have just blocked out the Venus de Medici's
        toes. There comes a man down from London to examine the
        drawings of the pupils every now and then, and if they are not
        accurate he sits on the master here ; so you may depend upon it
        that we have to be uncommonly exact ; but as Harrie knows I
        always was an advocate for that ; but this fellow makes us far
        more exact than I should have been. I am next to draw a figure
        or two from the flat and then from the plaster ; the more accurately
        we draw the faster he lets us proceed. Having got this great
        advantage I draw in my own rooms for an hour after hall, and
        really hope to be able to draw some day.
                                Butler to his Father.
                                                   Joh. Coll. May $tA, 1859.
             Dear Papa . . . You bid me state the portion of the Articles
        that I specially object to. I do not like doing so, for I fear it
        will pain both you and my mother considerably; but the opinion
        I have formed is one which I am ready to resign if fairly beaten.
        At the same time I must fairly confess that I believe the mass
        of evidence would make far more strongly with me than
        against me.
             The passage in the Articles is this : Art. xv. " But all we the
        rest, although baptised, and born again in Christ, yet offend in
        many things " (James iii. 2) ; " and if we say we have no sin, we
        deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us" (1 John i. 8)—
        believing for my own part that a man can, by making use of
        the ordinary means of grace, attain a condition in which he can
        say, " I do not offend knowingly in any one thing either habitually
        or otherwise, and believe that whereas once on a time I was full
        of sin I have now been cleansed from all sin and am holy even
        as Christ was holy upon earth."
             [This comes of reading More's Mystery of Godliness, and other
        like works.—S. B. 1901.]
             Nay more, that unless a man can at some time before his
        death say such words as these he is not incorporate with Christ
        and cannot be saved.
             I know not how to put my thoughts in less strong language
        and yet express them fairly and fully : I grant that to beings of
        finite intelligence like ourselves there will be, it may be, certain
        sins of ignorance which we could not be fairly chargeable for
        having committed, many of us having been educated to such
        a belief and never [having] had the means of discovering the

v            "FOLLY AND WICKEDNESS"                                65
falsehood thereof: but that no sin that is known to be sin will 1859
appear in him that is incorporate with Christ.                        Aet. 23
     I will certainly go in for my Voluntary in October if you
wish it : I am sorry to say I have no additional pupil this term ;
it is so very short a one that I could hardly expect it : of course
I have at present no means of knowing what I may have in the
Long. Love to May.—Your affectionate son,              S. Butler.
      Here follows a note, thirty-six words long, in Canon
Butler's handwriting. I regret that I am not authorized
to reproduce it ; I may, however, say that it refers to
Pelagius, in what sense the reader can guess. It is
followed by this further note in Butler's handwriting :
     I do not know which is the more comic in its own melancholy
way—my letter or my father's note.—S. B. 1901.
      Then there came a letter from Canon Butler, dated
9th May, the same day as Butler's letter, about which
there must be some error ; but perhaps it was an answer
to some other letter.           Butler shortened it into the
letter from George Pontifex to Theobald at the end of
chapter viii. of The ff^ay of All Flesh.              There is not
much to choose between the two, and I give the version
from The W'ay of all Flesh :
     Dear Theobald—I have received yours. I am at a loss to
conceive its motive, but am very clear as to its effect. You shall
 not receive a single sixpence from me till you come to your senses.
Should you persist in your folly and wickedness, I am happy to
 remember that I have yet other children whose conduct I can
 depend upon to be a source of credit and happiness to me.—Your
 affectionate but troubled father,                   G. Pont1fex.
      Buder was distressed to receive the original of this
letter, and wrote to his mother who, as I understand, was
at the moment away from home. The letter is long
but I give it in full because it seems to me to be remark
ably mature for a young man of twenty-three years and
five months.
                        Butler to his Mother.
                                      Joh. Coll. Camb. May 10, 1859.
     Dear Mamma—I was in hopes that my visit to Langar had
been productive of good effects, but I fear it has not ; for on my
      vol. I                                                   F

        66            CHOICE OF A PROFESSION                              v
  1859 sending a letter from my friend Hayllar to Langar I have
Aet. 23 received one in return of purport which has not astonished me
        though I need not say it has perturbed me.
             If I am the pig-headed fool you think me the best school for
        me is adversity. If, then, it so turns out that my refusal to turn
        lawyer or farmer brings considerable adversity on my head—it is
        good for me ; when I would fain fill myself with the husks, I
        shall be brought humble enough back again, and, if rejected, shall
        feel that I cannot greatly wonder.
             Most fathers on hearing my case, even as I should state it,
        would say : " Serve him right." Most sons would say that I
        was unfeelingly treated altogether with unwise and unnecessary
        pressure.
            I would emigrate, learn to farm in England, turn homoeopathic
        doctor, or learn to paint, in which last I have strong reason to
        believe I should succeed. But " No " from my father. To the
        other two courses, namely the law or a schoolmaster's life, I say
        " No " not less decidedly. You would, with the best intentions
        in the world, make me a bed that I know very well would not fit
        me. I know that when I am in, escape is impossible ; and,
        knowing that I have duties to myself to perform even more
        binding on me than those to my parents, with all respect adopt
        the alternative of rejecting the pounds, shillings, and pence and
        going in search of my own bread my own way.
            No man has any right to undertake any profession, for which
        he does not honestly believe himself well qualified, to please any
        other person. I should be preferring the hollow peace that would
        be patched up by my submission (for you could never forget that
        this submission had been obtained by money pressure), and the
        enjoyment of more money, to undergoing the great risk and trial
        which I see before me. I am old enough by this time to know
        my own mind and deliberately accede to my father's proposal that
        I should receive no more from him if I refuse to do what he
        wishes ; it is fair play ; I don't question his right to do what he
        likes with his own— I question his wisdom greatly, but neither
        his motives nor his determination to stick to them.
            One thing I trust—that is that I shall be allowed to
        correspond with Langar ; for, though I am not in the least un
        easy about my right to choose my own profession at my age, I
        know that I have no right to either write insulting letters to you
        or to cease informing you and hearing from you how we are
        mutually faring, unless compelled to do so by one or both of you.
        I should be very sorry to think that any connection other than
        the money connection should cease. That I regard as ceased
        already. My father said that after the Michaelmas quarter it
        should cease. I am not proud enough to say " Let it cease now,"

 t                 FINANCIAL OUTLOOK                                67
 though I would I were in a position to say so ; but can scarcely 1859
 expect that he will continue to support me till then as soon as he Aet. 23
 knows that I have made up my mind to reject either the law or a
 schoolmaster's life and either to emigrate or turn artist.
     I have some ^58 in hand, no debts ; France has, or rather
 will have at Midsummer, more than enough money of mine to pay
 my bill at the end of this term over and above this ^58. My
 pupil pays me ^1o at the beginning of June. I have a matter of
 ^200 ; altogether at the end of this term I stand possessed of
 £270. If, after a full statement of my affairs to Hayllar, he is of
 opinion that I may venture on the profession with a probability
 at the end of four or five years of making my living by it, I shall
 embark on it ; make my £270 (with the aid of a little pupil work
 for which I must spare an hour a day) (I mean in London—not
 here) last me three years ; and then borrow from two friends up
 here who have promised to assist me, or if the worst comes to the
 worst—but this would not be till the wolf was actually at the
 door—borrow on my reversion of the Whitehall property, which
 I believe to amount to some ^7000.
     I shall continue to reside here till October because I shall have
 to pay for these rooms and attendance anyhow, and cannot afford
 to pay for others in London at the same time ; moreover my
scholarship continues to pay me while I am in residence and the
 long vacation is the best paying time. I shall not try for pupils
 but devote myself entirely to the profession I intend to embark
on—I have no time to lose. I should not either read for the
 Voluntary for which I see I should get plucked ; there were many
questions for which I should have been plucked this time if I had
answered them as I believe they should be answered, and have r1ot
sufficient control ovejniyseiClo^write the received explanation
wheoT^o^noT'believe it. If I failTan? at the end of a year I
shouldBiow whether or not I was going to succeed, I should
either then make the best of a bad business and go off to New
 Zealand with whatever money I could raise, or go in for the civil
service examinations, and try for an appointment under govern
ment or whatever else might then seem best—but be sure I shall
come down for no money from Langar.
     One thing in my' father's letter struck me as either an
additional proof that he is perfectly unaware of my real disposi
tion and character or else as a most undeserved and ungenerous
taunt. He said : " Neither am I disposed to sacrifice the other
children to you." Either he supposes that I would see one penny
taken from them to supply me withal, in which case he betrays
great ignorance of my disposition, or else by such remarks as these
he is completing the estrangement between us. I never asked
him for an allowance. What he gave I took and have employed

         68              THE RIGHT TO CHOOSE                                  v
  1859 well; for that capital so laid out I can show good interest—
Aet. 23 especially during the six months I was in Heddon Street ; true, I
         fear the interest is not such as you like, but it is such as I feel all
         precious to me, though I see that this storm has been brought
        about by no other means. But for this I should have been quietly
        ordained and none of this sad business would ever have come
        about. But I say deliberately, it is better as it is for you and
        for my father and for me.
             For you, in that you will have peace in me eventually, though
        not now, which, had I been ordained, you never would, for all
        these doubts would have come about then, and I should have
        had my pounds, shillings, and pence, and been a fettered,
        miserable man.
             For me it is better that, at the cost of any present distress, I
        should have been saved such anguish as I know would then have
        been my lot.
             The like applies to the bar and to the schoolmaster in a less
        degree ; you would never have had any real peace and pleasure in
        me ; but when I have succeeded, and succeed I must and will
        eventually, you will both be happy enough to receive me back,
        and have real pleasure and comfort in me then, if not now.
             I am not petulantly in a huff, imagining that you will come
        round when you see I won't give in. I don't expect anything of
        the kind, don't expect to receive a penny from my father now or
        at his death, which I heartily desire may be long averted. But
        I say : Rather than give up my Christian liberty to choose a
        profession [in] which I honestly believe I can succeed, should be
        able to speak the truth in and get my living by—rather than give
        up this I give up the money which my father has allowed me till
        now.—I remain, dear Mamma, your affectionate son,
                                                                S. Butler.
             It seems that Butler, at this time, did not understand
       that his reversion to the Whitehall property, being only
       contingent, was not as saleable as it would have been
       had it been absolute. He wrote a similar but shorter
       letter to his father, formally renouncing the money.
       This, however, was not nearly the end. There are letters
       discussing farming in England ; others about the refusal
       to be a tutor and the alternatives of becoming a publisher,
       a homoeopathic doctor, or an artist ; about original sin
       standing or standing not in the following of Adam (as
       the Pelagians do vainly talk) ; and the possibilities of
       diplomacy, the army, and the bar. It is unnecessary to

v            EMIGRATION DECIDED ON                            69
reproduce any more details, especially since, as usually 1859
happens in a quarrel between people who are by tempera- Aet. 23
ment thoroughly unsympathetic, the main issue was
obscured by misunderstandings and by those tedious
explanations, which, instead of explaining, merely deepen
the misunderstanding.
     In August emigration was agreed upon, Canon Butler
consenting to continue the allowance for twelve months
and to advance capital if needful ; but it was not yet
settled what country was to be chosen, New Zealand,
the Cape, or Columbia. On 3rd August 1859 Canon
Butler wrote a letter which it is difficult to believe was
not written by Theobald and sent from Battersby. It
was from this letter that Butler took some phrases for
chapter xlv. of The Way of all Flesh when showing
why Ernest had to go into the church. For " medicine "
in the case of Ernest we must substitute " art " in Butler's
case.
    Medicine was a profession which subjected its students to
ordeals and temptations which these fond parents shrank from on
behalf of their boy ; he would be thrown among companions and
familiarized with details which might sully him ; and, though he
might stand, it was only too possible that he would fall.
     Finally it was decided that New Zealand should be
the country and sheep-farming the occupation.

                             CHAPTER VI
                                 1859-1860
             A FIRST TEAR IN CANTERBURT SETTLEMENT
  1859 A few years before the date at which we have now
Aet. 23 arrived several men of high standing, well known in
        clerical circles, had founded the Canterbury Association
        with the object of starting a colony in New Zealand
        upon Church of England principles. Their plan was
        to acquire waste land in the middle island, sell it to
        colonists and apply the purchase money partly in repaying
        the Association and starting the Settlement, partly in
        making roads, and partly in forming a Religious and
        Educational Fund.       In December 1850, the historic
        Four Ships with the first colonists, known as The
        Canterbury Pilgrims, entered Lyttelton Harbour, and
        by the following December three thousand emigrants had
        arrived, the Canterbury Settlement was started, and the
        town of Christchurch was being built.
             No doubt the expressed desire of the founders that
        theirs should be a Church of England colony, and the
        fact that the Archbishop of Canterbury was himself
        President, helped to advertise the scheme among the
        clergy and to recommend it to such parents as Canon
        and Mrs. Butler. Their son had no objection to a
        clerical atmosphere in the abstract ; it had not oppressed
        him at Cambridge, partly, perhaps, because Cambridge
        was not Langar ; why should it oppress him in New
        Zealand which was still less Langar ? And so it came
        about that on one of the last days of September, 1859,
        nearly a hundred years after James Butler had embarked
                                     70

v1          BUTLER ESCAPES SHIPWRECK                          71
in the Vansittart from Gravescnd for the East Indies in 1859
consequence of having got into some undefined scrape, et. 2J
his great-great-nephew, Samuel Butler, embarked in the
Roman Emperor from the same place for New Zealand
in consequence of having entertained doubts as to the
efficacy of infant baptism. On that night, for the first
time in his life, he did not say his prayers ; he was not
then a sceptic, but he felt no compunction ; the sense of
change was so great that he simply shed them and never
returned to them. (See The Note-Books of Samuel Butler,
 1912, p. 213.)
      During the voyage he did as Uncle James had done
and wrote down his impressions in letters to his people.
He also contributed two articles, printed as " Our Emi
grant," to The Eagle. The letters home formed the
basis of a book published by Canon Butler and entitled
A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement, by Samuel Butler
 (London: Longmans, 1863). A new edition has now
 appeared, A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement, with other
 Early Essays, by Samuel Butler, edited by R. A. Streatfeild
 (London : A. C. Fifield, 19 14). This new edition is
 referred to in the preceding chapter as reproducing some
 of Butler's Cambridge writings.          Although the New
 Zealand letters are thus accessible, I shall not apologise
 for giving extracts from them here, because there is no
 better way of telling the story of Butler's colonial
 experiences. The preface to A First Tear, dated Langar
 Rectory, June 29, 1863, and written by Canon Butler,
 tells how the emigrant's passage had been taken
... in the ill-fated ship Burmah which never reached her destina
tion and is believed to have perished with all on board. His
berth was chosen and the passage - money paid, when important
alterations were made in the arrangements of the vessel in order
to make room for some stock which was being sent out to the
Canterbury Settlement.
     The space left for the accommodation of the passengers
being thus curtailed, and the comforts of the voyage seeming
likely to be much diminished, the writer was most providentially
induced to change his ship, and, a few weeks later, secured a
berth in another vessel.

        72         THE WAYS OF PROVIDENCE                          v1
  1859       So that within a hundred years Providence saved
Aet. 23 three members of the family from shipwreck. It is true
        that Uncle James's escape was only "providential almost,"
        some of the credit being given to "good Luck" ; also
        that Dr. Butler was at first inclined to attribute his
        escape to accident ; but in the case of our New Zealand
        traveller the whole credit is given unhesitatingly to
        Providence alone. The instrument employed by Provi
        dence was Butler's cousin, Richard Worsley, who had
        means of ascertaining details and took some trouble to
        do so ; he persuaded Butler, sorely against his will, to
        get back his passage-money and to sail in the Roman
        Emperor.
             The preface further states that the MS. of the book
        " having been sent out to New Zealand for revision,
        was, on its return, lost in the Colombo and was fished up
        from the Indian Ocean so nearly washed out as to have
        been with some difficulty deciphered." Miss Butler told
        me that the difficulty was overcome by the ingenuity of
        her mother to whom it occurred as an inspiration to try
        holding the backs of the worst pages up to a looking-
        glass, and in this way the writing was read.
             The preface says nothing about Providence in the
        case of the MS., perhaps thinking it would be irreverent
        to attribute to that power a deliverance that was carried
        out in so unworkmanlike a manner as ' to occasion
        difficulty. It would have been equivalent to assuming
        that Providence, by reason, perhaps, of the strain imposed
        by these repeated shipwrecks, had become as clumsy as
        " good Luck " or mere accident. May we not, however,
        suppose that Providence intervened expressly in order
        to give an opportunity for the original of Christina to
        display her ingenuity ?
             Butler himself would have been as well pleased if his
        MS. had been entirely obliterated, or, better still, entirely
        lost. He made a note about it which concludes : " I
        wish it had been left where it was. My people revised
        it and very much transformed it. I daresay they improved
        it." As to whether the letters were improved by his
        people any one can now form his own opinion to a certain

v1                         LETTERS HOME                                          73
extent, Mr. Streatfeild having included in the 19 14 1859
edition of A First Tear an account of " Crossing the                                  2J
Rangitata " taken from the articles " Our Emigrant " in
The Eagle ; this was not revised by Canon Butler and was
not included in the original edition of A First Tear.
Butler only consented to the publication of his letters at
the earnest entreaty of his family, and always spoke of the
book as being " deeply tainted with Langar." In 1879,
when he began to number his works, he published his
fifth book, Evolution Old and New, as Op. IV., thereby
intentionally excluding the New Zealand book and count
ing Erewhon as Op. I. His letters home were not
intended for the public, nor were they what they would
have been if he had been writing to please himself ; they
were written to please his family—a difficult task in
which he seems to have succeeded for once. Moreover,
he was at the time growing rapidly and no doubt com
mitted faults, which, though not serious in the eyes of an
ordinary reader, appeared to him, in his maturer years,
to be almost intolerable. He once wrote of Mr. Grant
Allen, whom he thought he had detected contradicting
himself rather violently : " Truly, when Mr. Grant Allen
makes stepping-stones of his dead selves he jumps upon
them to some tune " ; 1 and he was a little apt to subject
his own dead selves to similar treatment.
      The book contains vivid descriptions of the country
and of life in the early days of the colony, and the account
of the voyage is particularly interesting to read just after
reading Uncle James's letters. Both the travellers observe
and mention the various strange birds and fishes which
were seen and caught, the flight of the albatrosses (which
Uncle James spells " Albutrasses "), the weather, the gales,
the hurricanes, and the cyclones. They both encountered
flying-fish ; Butler writes :
     These are usually in flocks, and are seen in greatest abundance
in the morning ; they fly a great way and very well, not with
the kind of jump which a fish takes when springing out of the
water, but with a bona fide flight, sometimes close to the water,
   1 Stlecticnsfrcm Prrviom Wirks by Samuel Butler (London : TrObner, 1884), p. 252 ;
Luck or Cunning ? by Samuel Butler (TrObner, 1887), p. 257.

         74               THE SOUTHERN CROSS                            v.
  1859 sometimes some feet above it. One flew on board, and measured,
Aet. 23 roughly, 18 inches between the tips of its wings.
             [Uncle James had written] We picked up a live flying
         Fish this Morning which had flown into the Main Chains ; it
         is a small slender white fish, much like a Dace and its two fins
         behind its Gills are remarkably long and serve it as Wings, with
        which I have seen them fly in great Shoals (when chased by
        Dolphins, Bonitas or other fish) about 2 or 3 yards high out of
        the water for 4 or 500 yards together.
              Uncle James frequently says : " A fine day, almost
        a calm." The Roman Emperor encountered a calm in the
        gloomy region about the Line and one of the passengers,
        a consumptive girl, was so much affected by the vaporous
        atmosphere that she died and was buried at sea. Several
        of Uncle James's soldiers died and were buried at sea.
              Butler had been told that the southern constellations
        were more impressive than our own, and accordingly was
        prepared to find them so ; but when they were spread out
        before his eyes, and he had an opportunity of considering
        them, he found that, as with the Greek Testament, he
        was unable to agree with all he had heard. The Southern
         Cross especially he found
        ... a very great delusion. It isn't a cross. It is a kite, a kite
        upside down, an irregular kite upside down, with only three
        respectable stars and one very poor and very much out of place.
        Near it, however, is a truly mysterious and interesting object
        called the coal sack : it is a black patch in the sky distinctly
        darker than all the rest of the heavens. No star shines through
        it. The proper name for it is the black Magellan cloud.
              His time on board passed very pleasantly ; he read
        Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, and
        Liebig's Agricultural Chemistry, and took lessons on the
        concertina from one of his fellow-passengers.
             Besides this, I have had the getting up and management of
        our choir. We practise three or four times a week ; we chant
        the Venite, Glorias, and Te Deums, and sing one hymn. I have
        two basses, two tenors, one alto, and lots of girls, and the
        singing certainly is better than you would hear in nine country
        places out of ten. I have been glad by this means to form the
        acquaintance of many of the poorer passengers. My health has
        been very good all the voyage. I have not had a day's sea
        sickness.

v1             THE STORMY PETRELS                            75
    One day, as Butler was contemplating the stormy 1860
petrels, the Captain came up and joined him.                    Aet. 24
     " Now Captain," said Butler, " can you tell me ?
Where do those birds lay their eggs ? "
     And the Captain replied : " God in heaven alone
bloody knows."
     Butler liked the absence of swagger in the rough
seaman's straightforward reply, and stowed the words
away in his memory for future use.
     Towards the end of January, 1860, the Roman
 Emperor neared Lyttelton Harbour.
    Presently we saw a light ahead from a ship : we drew slowly
near, and as we passed you might have heard a pin drop.
    " What ship's that ? " said a strange voice.
    " The Roman Emperor" said the Captain.
    "Are you all well?"
    "AH well."
    Then the Captain asked, " Has the Robert Small arrived ? "
    " No," was the answer, " nor yet the Burmah."
    You may imagine what I felt.
    Then a rocket was sent up, and the pilot came on board.
     Port Lyttelton lies in the crater of an extinct volcano,
the sides of which rise round it on the land side as a
range of hills ; behind the hills are the Canterbury Plains,
and through the plains the river Heathcote runs to the
sea ; beyond it runs the Avon with Christchurch upon
its banks. In Butler's time the way from Lyttelton to
Christchurch was by bridle-path over the hills to the
ferry across the Heathcote, and from there by a good
road to Christchurch. It was possible also to go by
sea in a boat round the headland to the estuary of
the river and proceed from there ; but Butler, who was
always ready for a walk, and especially a walk over hills
with a view, chose the bridle-path. The scenery he
found beautiful, but the view down upon the Canterbury
Plains disappointed him, being rather of the " long stare "
description, with few objects for the eye to rest upon, and
the distant range of mountains " not broken up into fine
forms like the Carnarvonshire mountains, but rather a
long, blue, lofty, even line like the Jura from Geneva or

       76                    BUYING A HORSE                             v1
1860 the Berwyn from Shrewsbury." As to the road between
  • 24 Heathcote Ferry and Christchurch ; if it were
       . . . through an avenue of mulberry trees, and the fields on either
       side were cultivated with Indian corn and vineyards, and if through
       these you could catch an occasional glimpse of a distant cathedral
       of pure white marble, you might well imagine yourself nearing
       Milan. As it is, the country is a sort of cross between the plains
       of Lombardy and the fens of North Cambridgeshire. . . .
           [At Christchurch] I put up at Mr. Rowland Davis's ; and
       as no one during the evening seemed inclined to talk to me, I
       listened to the conversation . . . [which was all about] sheep,
       horses, dogs, cattle, English grasses, paddocks, bush and so forth.
       ... I was rather startled at hearing one gentleman ask another
       whether he meant to wash this year, and receive the answer,
       " No." I soon discovered that a person's sheep are himself. If
       his sheep are clean, he is clean.
           [He bought a horse] by name Doctor. I hope he is a
       homoeopathist. He is in colour bay, distinctly branded P.C. on
       the near shoulder. I am glad the brand is clear ; for, as you well
       know, all horses are alike to me unless there is some violent dis
       tinction in their colour.
            Doctor cost ^55, which was not considered dear, as
       he was strong and accustomed to fording the rivers, and
       a horse was a necessity. He is introduced into Erewhon
       Revisited : the shepherd tells John Higgs in chapter xxvi.
       that Doctor " would pick fords better than that gentleman
       could, I know, and if the gentleman fell off him he would
      just stay stock still."
           At night a lot of Nelson and Wellington men came to the
       club. I was amused at dinner by a certain sailor and others who
       maintained that the end of the world was likely to arrive shortly ;
       the principal argument appearing to be that there was no more
       sheep country to be found in Canterbury. This fact is, I fear,
       only too true.
            Whether all the country—that is, sheep country—
       had been taken up or not was a matter of considerable
       importance to Butler. His father had already supplied
       him with some capital, and it had to be employed in a
       remunerative way. The alternatives were: (1) To buy
       sheep and put them out in charge of some established
       squatter, receiving the wool money as interest ; (2) to

v1            PROSPECTING FOR COUNTRY                             77
buy the goodwill of an established sheep run ; (3) to buy 1860
land and lay it down in English grass ; (4) to take up Aet. 24
land, if he could find any, and start a run of his own.
      The last plan was the one he ultimately followed, and
 it necessitated his making excursions into the interior in
search of country. Being such a bad horseman, he was
 unhappy on these expeditions, especially when Doctor, in
jumping the little swampy places and small creeks, always
 took what appeared to be a jump about three times
 greater than was necessary. He found the people all
 very hospitable ; and at one of the stations where he put
 up for the night was, at first sight, at some little distance,
 mistaken for a Maori on account of his dark hair and
 complexion.
      He made his first important expedition in company
 with a sheep-farmer who owned a run in the back country
 and was going into the remoter valleys, also looking for
 land. They put up for the night at one of the stations.
 His account shows the manner of his own life after he
 was settled on his own run :
     At night, and by a lovely, clear, cold moonlight we arrived at
 our destination, heartily glad to hear the dogs barking and to know
 that we were at our journey's end. Here we were bona fide
 beyond the pale of civilization ; no boarded floors, no chairs,
 nor any similar luxuries ; everything was of the very simplest
 description. Four men inhabited the hut, and their life appears
 a kind of mixture of that of a dog and that of an emperor, with a
 considerable predominance of the latter. They have no cook, and
 take it turn and turn to cook and wash up, two one week and
 two the next. They have a good garden, and gave us a capital
 feed of potatoes and peas, both fried together, an excellent com
 bination. Their culinary apparatus and plates, cups, knives and
 forks are very limited in number. The men are all gentlemen
 and sons of gentlemen, and one of them is a Cambridge man
 who took a high second-class a year or two before my time.
 Every now and then he leaves his up-country avocations and
 becomes a great gun at the College in Christchurch, examining
 the boys ; he then returns to his shepherding, cooking, bullock-
 driving, etc., etc., as the case may be. I am informed that the
 having faithfully learned the ingenuous arts has so far mollified
 his morals that he is an exceedingly humane and judicious
 bullock-driver. He regarded me as a somewhat despicable new

        78                 WILLIAM ROLLESTON                             v,
  186o comer (at least so I imagined) and when, next morning, I asked
Aet. 24 where I should wash, gave rather a French shrug of the shoulders,
        and said, "The lake" [*'.*. Lake Coleridge]. I felt the rebuke
        to be well-merited, and that, with the lake in front of the house,
        I should have been at no loss for the means of performing my
        ablutions.     So I retired abashed and cleansed myself therein.
        Under his bed I found Tennyson's Idylls of the King. So you
        will see that even in these out-of-the-world places people do care
        a little for something besides sheep. I was told an amusing story
        of an Oxford man shepherding down in Otago. Someone came
        into his hut, and, taking up a book, found it in a strange tongue
       and enquired what it was. The Oxonian (who was baking at
       the time) answered that it was Machiavellian Discourses upon the
        First Decade of Livy. The wonder-stricken visitor laid down
       the book and took up another, which was, at any rate, written in
       English. This he found to be Bishop Butler's Analogy. Putting
       it down speedily as something not in his line, he laid his hands
       upon a third. This proved to be Patrum Apostolicorum Opera,
       on which he saddled his horse and went right away, leaving the
       Oxonian to his baking. This man must certainly be considered
       a rare exception.      New Zealand seems far better adapted to
       develop and maintain in health the physical than the intellectual
       nature. The fact is, people here are busy making money ; that
       is the inducement which led them to come in the first instance,
       and they show their sense by devoting their energies to the work.
       Yet, after all, it may be questioned whether the intellect is not
       as well schooled here as at home, though in a very different
       manner.       Men are as shrewd and sensible, as al1ve to the
       humorous, and as hard-headed. Moreover, there is much non
       sense in the old country from which people here are free. There
       is little conventionalism, little formality, and much liberality of
       sentiment ; very little sectarianism, and, as a general rule, a
       healthy, sensible tone in conversation, which I like much. But
       it does not do to speak about John Sebastian Bach's Fugues or
       pre-Raphaelite pictures.
             After Butler's death I made the acquaintance of
        Professor George S. Sale who knew him in New Zealand.
        Professor Sale kindly allowed me to read to him the
        chapters in this book which relate to the colony. When I
        came to the part about the Cambridge man being " an
        exceedingly humane and judicious bullock- driver "
        Professor Sale exclaimed, " He was."               I asked for
        particulars, and he told me he was William Rolleston,
        brother of George Rolleston the Oxford professor.

v,                  MORE EXCURSIONS                              79
William Rollcston afterwards became fourth Superintend- 1860
ent of the Provincial Council of Canterbury, and there is Aet. 24
a statue to him at Christchurch. He was in London in
1900.
     The passage about morals becoming mollified by the
faithful learning of the ingenuous arts is, of course, an
echo of an example in the old Latin grammar sometimes
used in this way by Thackeray. I suspect that in thus
referring to it Butler was consciously imitating that writer
whom he had not at this time " found out." This is
probably an instance of what he considered his youthful
priggishness. " How many years, I wonder, was it before
I learned to dislike Thackeray and Tennyson as much as
I now do ? For how many years did I not almost worship
them ? " {The Note-Books of Samuel Butler, 1 9 1 2, p. 188.)
     At the stations where he stopped on these excursions
he found that every one washed his own clothes and no
one used sheets. At the station where he met Rolleston
he saw a sheep killed for the first time in his life. He
found it unpleasant ; but, before he left New Zealand,
he became an expert at the business and as indifferent to
its unpleasantness as any one. The knife that killed the
sheep carved the mutton for dinner.
     Next day they went on up the Harper river, a tributary
of the Rakaia, in the hope of finding at the head of it a
saddle leading into new country on the other side of the
main range ; and that night he had his first experience of
camping out.
    Probably after another year or two I shall regard camping out
as the nuisance which it really is, instead of writing about sombre
forests and so forth. Well, well, that night I thought it very
fine ; and so, in good truth, it was.
     Next morning they looked for gold in the shingly
beds of all the little streams, but found none. Then they
got above the water into a wood full of little glossy green
paroquets, and by degrees came high enough to see the
saddle ; but it was far off and covered with snow, and
they had no provisions or blankets. They also made up
their minds, first, that it was not on the main range, and

         80         « TANGLED SILVER RIBBONS"                             v1
 1 8 60 secondly, that it would certainly only lead them over to
A«. 24 t^e Waimakiriri, the next river to the north of the
         Rakaia. So they returned to where they had left the
        horses and camped out again.
             Next morning, at early dawn, the scene was most magnificent.
        The mountains were pale as ghosts and almost sickening from
        their death-like whiteness. We gazed at them for a moment or
         two, and then turned to making a fire, which in the cold frosty
         morning was not unpleasant. Shortly afterwards we were again
        en route for the station from which we had started. We burnt
        the flats as we rode down, and made a smoke which was noticed
         between 50 and 60 miles off.. I have seen no grander sight than
        the fire upon a country which has never before been burnt, and on
         which there is a large quantity of Irishman [the name given to a
         thorny shrub which, in the back country, attains to a considerable
         size]. The sun soon loses all brightness, and looks as though seen
         through smoked glass. The volumes of smoke are something
        that must be seen to be appreciated. The flames roar and the
        grass crackles and every now and then a glorious lurid flare marks
        the ignition of an Irishman ; his dry thorns blaze fiercely for a
         minute or so, and then the fire leaves him, charred and blackened
        for ever. A year or two hence a stiff nor'wester will blow him
        over, and he will lie there and rot and fatten the surrounding
        grass ; often, however, he shoots out again from the roots, and
        then he is a considerable nuisance.
              Another time he went alone up the Waimakiriri
        looking unsuccessfully for a run. He crossed the river
        just after a fresh when the water was thick. " From the
        top of the terrace I had surveyed it carefully as it lay
        beneath, wandering capriciously in the wasteful shingle-
        bed and looking like a maze of tangled silver ribbons "—
        a simile which he afterwards used in Erewhon (opening of
        chapter iii.)
              Then follows an account of his crossing the river,
        though it would be more correct to call it an account of
        Doctor's crossing the river ; for the operation was entrusted
        to the horse, who knew much better than Butler did how
        to pick fords.
             On their first few experiences of these New Zealand rivers
        people dislike them extremely ; then they become very callous to
        them and are as unreasonably foolhardy as they were before
        timorous ; then they generally get an escape from drowning or

v1                     MOUNT COOK                               81
two, or else they get drowned in earnest. After one or two 1860
escapes their original respect for the rivers returns and for ever Aet. 2+
after they learn not to play any unnecessary tricks with them.
Not a year passes but what each of them sends one or more to his
grave ; yet as long as they are at their ordinary level and crossed
with due care there is no real danger in them whatever.
     Not having found any land that would do, he next
went with a companion up the Rangitata, and this time
found a small piece which he afterwards took up. But
though he found country, which was of course the chief
thing, something else happened which he enjoyed much
more—he saw Mount Cook. They rested on the shingle
bed at the top of the range and looked over, hoping to
discover suitable land on the other side, but could only
make out the Mackenzie Plains. Seeing that he could
get a better view from the top of a peak a few feet higher
he went up it alone, first arranging to call his companion
if there was country to be seen.
    I saw snowy peak after snowy peak come in view as the
summit in front of me narrowed, but no mountains were visible
higher or grander than what I had already seen. Suddenly as my
eyes got on a level with the top, so that I could see over, I was
struck almost breathless by the wonderful mountain that burst
upon my sight. The effect was startling. It rose towering in a
massy parallelogram disclosed from top to bottom in the cloudless
sky, far above all the others. It was exactly opposite to me and
about the nearest in the whole range. So you may imagine that
it was indeed a splendid spectacle.
     Though Mount Cook was not country, he called up
his companion, who agreed that he had never seen anything
so wonderful.
     He made another expedition up the Hurunui but
found nothing better than the small run on the Rangitata,
which he had lighted on the day he saw Mount Cook, and
had taken up ; so he determined to hibernate there to see
what the place was like, and, if it turned out satisfactorily,
there was some good country in the immediate vicinity
which he hoped to be able to take. By June 1860, he
had built a V hut on the small run and was living in it
with his man and two cadets, five-and-twenty miles from
     vol. 1                                                 c

         82                    LOADING THE DRAY
  1860 the nearest human habitation. " A cadet is a young fellow
Aet. 24 who receives his food and lodging gratis and works (or is
         supposed to work) in order to learn."
              The winter's experience showed him that the country
        with the V hut would not do for sheep unless worked with
        other land that would be clear of snow ; so, having made
         up his mind that the adjacent land was safe in this respect,
         he took it up and in October set out from Christchurch
        for the new run with a loaded dray drawn by a team of
         six bullocks. I give a list of what he took up ; it relates
        to some other occasion, but it shows the kind of things
         with which the dray must have been loaded :
                         Th1ngs for the Dray to br1ng up
                                              ABOUT  1863
        Flour, 1 ton 10 cwt.          £ =4   0   0    Woolbales
        Tea, 2 ehest                    22   0   0    Sewing twine
        Sugar, 15 cwt.                  39   0   0    Grave stone '
        Coffee, 28 lb.                   2   9   0    Catde brand
        Tobaeeo, 40 lbs.                18   0   0    Mortising axe
        1 ease brandy                    3 10    0    Nails
        Grog, 5 gallons                  5  10   0    Serews
        Furniture                                     Glasses
        Writing-paper                                 Pattisson's boxes and eheque
        Billhook                                      Paling knife
                    /•salmon, lobsters               Vinegar, 2 gallons            £0
                     oysters             +   2   0    Pipes
        Delieaeies sardines              2   6   8    Matehes
                     raisins                          String
                     dried apples        2   0   9   Soap
                    \2 doz. [illegible] 1  16   0    Pig
       Two axes, six handles                         Mattress                       1
       One adze                                      Hops
        Files, for erosseut and                      Ink
           handsaw                                   One piekaxe
       Slops                                         Teapot
       Blankets                                      Rope
        1 eask ale, pints                            Two shovels
       Dueks                                         Calieo for roof
       Rabbits                                       Disheloths
       Box from home                                 Milktins
       Candle wiek, 20 lbs.              2   0   0   Croekery
       Pitch, 1 cwt. eask                2   5  0    Cooking utensils
       Pitch twine, 4 eoils                           1 bueket
       Pepper                                        Nest of tubs
       Salt, 1 bag                       0 10   0    Ashmore's box No. 2
       Woreester sauee                               Lanthorn
       English grass seeds                           Pens
                       1 Probably for the grave of Dr. Sinclair (see post, p. 88).

yi                        BULLOCKS                            83
     The bullocks were a trouble at night. Unless they 1860
were yarded they strayed, and had to be found in the Aet. 24
morning.
    Were they up the river or down the river, across the river or
gone back ? You are at Cambridge and have lost your bullocks.
They were bred in Yorkshire but have been used a good deal in the
neighbourhood of Dorchester and may have consequently made in
either direction ; they may, however, have worked down the Cam
and be in full feed for Lynn ; or, again, they may be snugly
stowed away in a gully half-way between the Fitzwilliam Museum
and Trumpington. You saw a mob of cattle feeding quietly
about Madingley on the preceding evening, and they may have
joined in with these ; or were they attracted by the fine feed in
the neighbourhood of Cherryhinton ? Where shall you go to
look for them ?
     They were always recovered, but the waste of time was
considerable and annoying : he used to say that when he
died the word " Bullocks " would be found written on
his heart.
     Then there came a snowstorm which continued for
nearly three days and three nights, which they spent in an
unfinished hut, reading novels, hemming towels, and
smoking. But at last they reached the V hut and found
that their country was safe, and that the snow on the new
run, which lay considerably lower, had not been deeper
than four inches.
     A man whom he calls G              had an application for
 5000 acres in the same block, but until the land had been
surveyed the boundaries were uncertain, and G                had
built a hut upon a spot that eventually turned out to be
on Butler's land and on the site where he wished to build.
He went and saw G                 and tried to arrange the
difficulty, offering compensation for the loss of his hut ;
but G          would not listen. There was nothing for it
but to go to the Land Office in Christchurch and make an
application to buy from the Government the freehold of
the land on which the hut stood and twenty acres round
it ; this was possible under the Government regulations
and, as Butler knew that G                intended to make a
similar application, it was important to start at once, which

         84                 SIR J. S. WILLIAMS
  1860 he did. He had difficulty in crossing the Ashburton
Aet. 24 which was heavily freshed ; he camped out for the night
        lying in the tussocks with his horse's bridle in his hand ;
        next day he was overtaken by G              , who was on his way
        to put his own name down ; they travelled together for
        some time, treating each other politely, and G              went
        on ahead while Butler was getting breakfast in a station.
        Then Butler's horse knocked up and he borrowed another
        at another station. He forded the Rakaia which was low ;
        " a few hours afterwards, down it came." They both
        arrived in Christchurch after the office was closed. Next
        morning Butler found that his name had been entered by
        his solicitor on another matter of business the previous
        day, but it stood next below G                's name, which had
        been inserted unfairly out of due order before office hours
        the same morning. In the end Butler, allowing G
        for his hut and yard, bought him out entirely.
             In 1912 Mr. Triggs, Editor of The Press, New
        Zealand, wrote to me that Sir Joshua Strange Williams, of
        Dunedin, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court, re
        membered Butler in New Zealand and also remembered
        G        , whose real name began with a different letter, but
        we may as well go on calling him G                  . The judge
        wrote me on 19th August 1912a letter of reminiscences
        in which, speaking of G           , he says :
             He was by trade a cattle-dealer and drover. I knew him well
        enough. In fact he did me the honour to consult me on one or
        two occasions when I was in practice. He was a well-built,
        fairly powerful man and a rough customer. It was towards the
        end of 1875 or in 1876 after I had ceased to live in Christchurch
        that he was engaged by a well-known Christchurch man ... to
        drive cattle from Canterbury to Otago and sell them there.
        G        drove them there and sold them. The Waitaki, a broad
        and dangerous unbridged river, separated Otago and Canterbury ;
        crossing this, coming back, the notes, the proceeds of the sale,
        G       said were washed out of his pocket. They were discovered
        in his boots. He was tried and convicted, and got, I think, five
        years.
             The judge was at Trinity when Butler was at St. John's,
        but they did not know each other at Cambridge. He
        continues his letter to me thus :

v1                     BACH'S FUGUES                          85
     I saw a good deal of him [Butler], however, in 1862 and 1860
 1 863 at the Christchurch Club, where he used to put up when he A«. 24
came to town. His talk was always stimulating ... I shall
never forget the small dark man with the penetrating eyes who
took up a run at the back of beyond, carted a piano up there on
a bullock dray, and passed his solitary evenings playing Bach's -'
fugues ; and who, when he emerged from his solitude and came
down to Christchurch, was the most fascinating of companions.

                              CHAPTER VII
                                    1861-1864
                              . MESOPOTAMIA
 1861 In 191 3 Mr. Fifield showed me a book, Five Tears in
Aet.2* New Zealand (1859 to 1864), by Robert B. Booth,
       M.Inst.C.E. (London : J. G. Hammond & Co., Ltd.,
       Fleet Lane, Old Bailey, E.C., 19 12). Mr. Booth, as a
       young man, emigrated to New Zealand ; at Christchurch
       he met Butler, who offered him a post on his run at £60
       per annum with all expenses paid, an offer which Mr.
       Booth accepted. In chapter xiv. of his book he writes
       thus of Butler :
           Immediately he landed he made himself acquainted with the
       maps and districts taken up, and rode many hundreds of miles
       prospecting for new country. His energy was rewarded by the
       discovery of the unclaimed piece of mountain land he now.
       occupied near the upper gorge of the Rangitata. The run,
       which comprised about 8000 acres, formed a series of spurs and
       slopes leading from the foot of the great range and ending in
       a broad strip of flat land bounded by the Rangitata. Upon two
       other sides were smaller streams, tributaries of the latter—hence
       the name Mesopotamia (Between the Rivers) given to it by its
       energetic possessor. Mr. Butler had been established upon the
       run about a year, and had already about 3000 sheep on it. The
       homestead was built upon a little plateau on the edge of the
       downs, approached by a cutting from the flat, and was most
       comfortably situated and well sheltered, as it needed to be, the
       weather being often exceedingly severe in that elevated locality.
            Butler was a literary man, and his snug sitting-room was
       fitted with books and easy chairs—a piano, also, upon which he
       was no mean performer.
           The station hands comprised a shepherd, bullock- driver,
                                        86



r^. :.

 ™                      COLONIAL LIFE                           87
hut-keeper, and two station hands employed in fencing-in 1861
paddocks, which with Cook, the overseer, Butler, and myself Aet. 25
made up the total.
     At daybreak we all assembled in the common kitchen for
breakfast, after which we separated for our different employments.
At 12 noon we met again for dinner, and again about 7 p.m.
for supper, which meal being over, Butler, Cook, and I would
repair to the sitting-room, and round a glorious fire smoked or
read or listened to Butler's piano. It was the most civilised
experience I had had of up-country life since I left Highfield,
and was very enjoyable.
      Butler's run is still called Mesopotamia and is so
marked on the maps. Here is another glimpse of his
life there—a note which he preserved because it recalled
New Zealand so vividly.
     April 1 86 1. — It is Sunday.    We rose later than usual.
There are five men sleeping in the hut. I sleep in a bunk on
one side of the fire ; Mr. Haast, a German who is making a
geological survey of the province, sleeps upon the opposite one ;
my bullock-driver and hut-keeper have two bunks at the far end
of the hut, along the wall ; while my shepherd lies in the loft
among the tea and sugar and flour. It was a fine morning and
we turned out about seven o'clock.
     The usual mutton and bread for breakfast with a pudding
made of flour and water baked in the camp oven after a joint
of meat—Yorkshire pudding, but without eggs. While we were
at breakfast a robin perched on the table and sat there a good
while pecking at the sugar.       We went on breakfasting with
little heed to the robin and the robin went on pecking with little
heed to us. After breakfast Pey, my bullock- driver, went to
fetch the horses up from a spot about two miles down the river
where they often run ; we wanted to go pig-hunting.
     I go into the garden and gather a few pcascods for seed till
the horses should come up. Then Cook, the shepherd, says that
a fire has sprung up on the other side of the river. Who could
have lit it ?    Probably some one who had intended coming to
my place on the preceding evening and has missed his way, for
there is no track of any sort between here and Phillips's. In a
quarter of an hour he lit another fire lower down and by that
time, the horses having come up, Haast and myself—remembering
how Dr. Sinclair had just been drowned so near the same spot —
think it safer to ride over to him and put him across the river.
The river was very low and so clear that we could see every
stone. On getting to the river-bed we lit a fire and did the

        88                     DR. SINCLAIR                          vn
  1861 same on leaving it ; our tracks would guide anyone over the
Aet. 25 intervening ground.
            Julius Haast was a German who had been appointed
        Provincial Geologist in 1860. His scientific work and
        discoveries were of great value to New Zealand ; he
        named the mountains and glaciers of the Southern Alps
        and discovered the pass now called after him which leads
        through the mountains to the west coast. He founded
        and was director of the Museum in Christchurch. He
        was ennobled by the Austrian Government and knighted
        by the British, so that he became Sir Julius von Haast.
        The friendship between him and Butler lasted until his
        death in 1887. In 1879 he published Geology of the
        Provinces of Canterbury and Westland, New Zealand: a
        Report comprising the Results of Official Explorations (printed
        at The Times office, Christchurch). From this it appears
        that he went up the Rangitata accompanied by Dr.
        Sinclair, who was to assist in the botanical researches ;
        on the 26th February 1861 they reached the broad
        opening by which the valleys of the Rangitata, the
        Ashburton, and the Rakaia are united.
            We followed this opening to the Rangitata, having the
        snow-covered peaks of the central range before us ; and, after
        descending several hundred feet into the bed of the river Potts
        where it joins the Rangitata, we crossed that river and reached
        Mesopotamia, then the sheep-station of Mr. Samuel Butler, where
        I established my head-quarters (p. 4).
             A little further on (pp. 11 and 12) is an account of
        the drowning of Dr. Sinclair, and of how his body was
        found, brought to Mesopotamia, and buried there. There
        is another account of the drowning of Dr. Sinclair in
        Mr. Booth's book. Mr. J. D. Enys told me that when
        he was a member of the Provincial Council of Canterbury
        he had twenty acres reserved round the grave on which
        is a flat stone in memory of Dr. Sinclair.
             The danger of crossing New Zealand rivers is often
        referred to in A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement
        and also in the following passage from Butler's MS.
        Note-Books :

v11            CROSSING THE RANGITATA                            89
      I was once compared to an albatross. I was crossing a mob 1861
of sheep over the Rangitata on to my own run ; the sheep Aet. 25
were tired with driving, there was an awful nor'wester on the
riverbed, and a fresh was evidently about to come down ; the
sheep would not cross ; nothing that we could all do would get
them to face the river. I rode over, therefore, to my own hut
to get the assistance of two men who were putting up my second
hut—or, I suppose I should almost call it, my house. The river
was still low, but I sent them down with my horse that they
might cross it at once while I got a mouthful of something to
eat. Having got this I went down to the river on foot and
 found these men by the side of the river, funking. There was
no excuse, seeing they had a horse, so I went straight into the
river on foot and forded the first stream. Old Darky describing
 it to someone else said, "... and he went in — he went in
 like an albatross."
       Butler's chief occupation, of course, was the sheep and
 all that concerned their welfare. The following letter to
 his father will show his financial position, and will give an
idea of how assiduously he attended to the business side
 of his colonial life. The letter was written at Christ-
 church during an absence from Mesopotamia, which he
 speaks of as " home " :
                        Butler to his Father.
                                         Xt. Church, May 31, 1861.
      My dear Father—I have come down to Xt. Church to
 meet this mail and find the sum of £500 unexpectedly come out.
 I am very sorry indeed that you have troubled yourself to borrow
 it, as I was in no way pressed for money, and had not expected
 it out before next mail. I am very much obliged to you for it.
 I had come down this mail, rather than next, because after the
 middle of next month travelling will be very bad, and I intended
 letting Messrs. Johnstone and Williams, my solicitors, receive
 the money and place it to my credit at the bank—giving Mr.
 Palmer, the manager, notice of my intention. I did this once
 before.
      As it has come out I have placed it to my credit at Dalgety,
Buckley & Co.'s and they give me 10 per cent till the money
has to be paid.
      This, however, will not enable me to meet Caton, nor nearly
do so. I think you must be aware of this from my previous
letters. It is exceedingly distasteful to me to keep hammering at

        90                  FINANCIAL POSITION                            ?.,
  1861 you for the remaining ^1000, but I am absolutely compelled to
Aet. 25 do so. My mother, too, begs me not ; and I can see clearly that
        I am urging you to do something that you do not like. I have
        very little remembrance of what I wrote the letter before last,
        but I fear I may have let fall expressions that I should decidedly
        repent of at leisure. I really forget what I said ; if I said any
        thing unbecoming, pray forgive it and bear with me while I urge
        my case in the best manner that I can.
             I have a letter of yours by me which I cannot help thinking
        you must somewhat have forgotten, I mean one which arrived
        about this time last year or a little later (I have the letter and
        will send it if its existence be forgotten). In that letter I was
        promised that I might have the sum of ^3000, over and above
        £2000 already sent out, by giving you three months' notice ; that
        you would prefer capitalising by instalments (at what intervals
        was not stated), but that I was to " take carte blanche " and act as
        I thought best.
             Subsequently there appeared a decided change in the tone of
        your intentions ; ^2000 was to be reserved in your keeping until
        the affair had been tried—till I was certain I was on safe ground
        —still the reserve was not destined to be the means of a fresh
        start, but to be invested in the concern upon its being definitely
        approved of and answering.
             One of the intended reserve thousands has been sent out, but
        the period for the receipt of the other is deferred to the indefinite
        time of a great crisis.
             Let me respectfully urge that this is not giving me fair play.
             Until I knew your intentions towards me I asked for nothing.
        I should have been prepared to receive, and felt the justice of my
        receiving, little or nothing. You had been to great expense with
        my education ; the results of that appeared to end in an unsatis
        factory rejection of that purpose for which it had been more
        especially intended. I gave you a great deal of anxiety before I
        left home, and did so, if not contrary to your desire, at any rate
        contrary to your wishes. I should have felt the justice of my not
        doing so at your expense, i.e. should have felt that I had no right
        to claim any assistance, and, indeed, was fully determined to ask
        no aid and only take what was freely offered. It was this feeling
        which prevented me from even enquiring your intentions towards
        me when I left—a very unwise and false pride, for I now see
        plainly that had I arrived here and had only my own £220 I
        must have immediately fallen back upon my education for my
        livelihood and been little better off than in England—certainly
        not commensurably better off with the disadvantages attendant on
        self-expatriation. However, let that pass.
             1 never made an engagement for a penny beyond what you

v11                 FINANCIAL POSITION                           91
actually sent me until I had received permission from you to take 1861
carte blanche, and had reason given me to believe that I should Aet. 2$
have ^3000 more in my own hands. Then, not at once, but
restrained by feeling that you would prefer instalments to an
immediate outlay of the whole, I have taken you at your word
and have, little and little, made engagements up to within ,£200
of the whole amount.
     I did not at first understand your letters to imply that the
whole ^3000, after the ^2000 already sent out, was not to be at
my own disposal as soon as I was perfectly clear of my ground ;
neither do I think that the letters will bear any other construction
than that which I put upon them. I regret that I have lost one
or two letters from home upon money matters ; I have the one
containing the original offer, and I have quite sufficient of subse
quent ones to support what I am here stating ; but I have not the
whole connected chain, link by link.
     Now, I do not mean to say that I cannot meet my engage
 ments without further aid from you, but that I shall only be able
 to do so by borrowing money at fully 10 per cent—very possibly
 more, if disturbances continue in America, and if the depression
 in the money market continues ; or else I must sell sheep, which
 would be far worse.
      I shall endeavour to meet your arguments against sending it
 as best I can ; but the plea I put in is this : " that having once
 received a definite offer of a definite sum to be paid within a
 definite time, if required, and a permission to use my own dis
 cretion and take carte blanche, any subsequent change is not the
 less injurious to me from the excellence of the intentions which
 dictate it : that I have made engagements in consequence of
 that permission, deferring the payment of the last /1ooo until
 nearly two years after the receipt of this, to me, all-important
 letter in deference to your wish to capitalise by instalment : that
 the result of my deference is that I am left in great uncertainty,
 great anxiety and uneasiness of mind, because I see plainly that
 your mind has changed and that I do not know what to
 depend upon."
      Surely I explained that I should have to make a hole in the
 last ^1ooo if I purchased Caton ; search my letters and I think
 you will find this, indeed I am sure you will. Had you never
  made the offer I should never have made the engagements ;
 having made the engagements I cannot forego the offer without
 heavy expense and great anxiety.
      Now let us descend to the arguments themselves—not that I
 put in my plea upon them ; I enter into them " without prejudice "
 to use a legal phrase.
      Your reservation is precautionary.

          92                            SHEEP                              v11
  1 86 1      Let me show you a few among many precautions which will
Aet. 25 be utterly neglected by your present determination.
              The scab is our great enemy and of that we are in constant
         alarm. If my flock were to break out scabby (and I am happy
         to say I am in no fear—still it might happen at any time) I have
         to declare myself, to find securities for j£1oo, and to dip within
         three months and thoroughly clean myself, or forfeit my ^1oo
         and a similar fine for every 3 months during which I continue
         scabby.
              Now at this present time if I were, on my return home [i.e.
         to Mesopotamia from Christchurch], to be told by my shepherd
         that he had seen a spot of scab in the flock, I have to erect a dip,
         to send down to Xt. Church for boilers and tobacco, and make
         all my preparations for dipping ; in the meantime my sheep are
         getting worse and worse every day, and consequently twice as
         difficult to clean as if taken at once and immediately ; in addition
         to the ,£100 which I have to pay for my dip, my boilers, their
         carriage, the tobacco and its carriage, I might be fined twice
         over ; whereas if I had the materials by me I might dip within
         twenty-four hours of the discovery and be in perfect security.
         Until, however, I know that I can have the remaining ^1ooo
         this outlay is one which I am unable to make. It is true that
         I am not likely to be scabby ; sheep on a healthy run do not break
         out scabby of themselves ; some people say that they do, but,
         though I have made a very great number of enquiries, I have not
         succeeded in finding a single instance in which a flock has broken
         out of itself. The Rangitata, Forest Creek, and the Butler (so
         named, not by myself, but by consent of the neighbourhood)
         surround me by impassable boundaries from all but King and
         Stace, and they will never work their run—at least I think they
         will not. Therefore no sheep can join with mine, an advantage
         which in other ways, which it would far exceed my limits to
         enter into, is very great ; it is the greatest advantage a run can
         have—a poorly grassed run with good boundaries being better
         than a well grassed run with bad, if each are the same size.
         Mine, however, is as well grassed as bounded. I shall never get
         a better.
             I say, then, that my sheep are not likely to be scabby ; still
         the precaution of erecting a dip and getting boilers up at my
         leisure would be a very wise one.
             Now for another :
             Good rams are all important. In a depression of the wool-
         market it is the inferior wools that suffer, not the superior
         quality.
              Good rams cost from ^5-^10 a head, some as much as
         twenty, thirty, forty, fifty and a hundred pounds ; these are all

vn                              RAMS                               93
prices which have been given since I have been in the Settlement. 1861
Mr. Rich, the man who changed some sheep with the Emperor Ae'. 25
Louis Napoleon, showed me a lamb not six weeks old which he
had just sold for ^90, and it was worth it. These prices are
given by those who devote their attention to breeding rams, but
the offspring of these fine rams are not purchasable under from
£S-jCl° a head. I have been obliged to purchase at ^3 a head ;
the rams I have are really very good and have thrown very fine
lambs, but they are not calculated to place my flock among the
picked and choice ones of the Settlement, and I am contented
with nothing short.
      Rams should be changed at least every two years, or else they
breed with their own young stock, which is highly injurious.
The usual custom is to exchange with your neighbours ; if I had
first-class rams I could exchange for first-class, having only good
second-class I shall only get first-class by additional outlay.
      Had I felt perfectly confident of getting the whole amount
you reserve for me at my own disposal I should have searched
far and wide for the tip top rams I could find, utterly regardless
of price, provided I was sure that I was getting as good an article
as could be had in the market, of course not trusting to my own
judgement in the selection.
      As it is, my flock is a very fair one, perhaps rather above than
 under the average, and the rams I have are calculated to improve
 it ; but it is a much easier and cheaper task to improve a small
 flock than a large one, and, had I been able to command ten
 pound rams instead of three pound rams, my present lambing
 would be worth a great deal more than it is.
      Do not misunderstand me as having got inferior rams ; all I
am saying is that it would have paid me better to get not only
goad rams but the best I could get, short of fancy prices. In case
 of depression in the wool-market the advantage of having tip top
 wool would be far more valuable to me than any reserve of ^1000
 in your hands.
      Supposing in seven or eight years I have twenty thousand
sheep, as indeed is not by any means impossible, the difference
 might, in case of great depression, be upwards of ^1000 to me
 every year.
      As for woolshed, which is a far less important matter, it is no
 use at all putting up a bad one. I have sent you word of the
 outcry against the manner in which we get up our wool ; yet
 without good wash pools and a good woolshed the wool can
 never be well got up.
      It is true I can wash well enough and can manage to stave
over next shearing with my present shed, when my wool money
 will be something considerable as all the expenses of my station,

        94                  SECURING THE RUN                             vn
  1861 save such wages as are due between this and then, are paid
Aet. 25 already ; still I would do it now if I could.
             You can have no idea of the expenses attendant upon starting
        a sheep run if things are really to be done well, and not after
        the slatternly fashion in vogue here. And, on the other hand,
        the returns are magnificent.
             If you send me out the remaining ^1000, as I earnestly
        request you to do, my entire outlay will have been ^5200.
             In eight or nine years' time the net income from my sheep
        should be £4000 per annum. Every year from date income
        rapidly increases while expenses remain nearly stationary.
             In 1870 what is to be done with a run like mine? It is
        fit for nothing but what it is used for ; and, though there is no
        doubt that the rent will be greatly augmented, there is no reason
        to suppose that the government should take our runs from us
        here more than in Australia ; those in possession stand a better
        chance of keeping possession than any one else does of getting
        possession. Not but what we are more likely to arrange the
        matter with government after this fashion : Long before our
        lease expires the government will want money to pay interest on
        the loan for the railway ; we may come forward and say : " Double,
        treble, quadruple our rent and give us a longer lease." A com
        promise of this kind is highly probable by and by, but at present
        there is peace and quietness unspeakable. And, suppose that in
        four or five years' time the government lower the prices of land
        and pay the railway, I for my part should raise every halfpenny I
        could get and buy at the low rate every spot on my run on which
        a man could put his hut ; with land at 10s. an acre I could defy.
        any man to work my run by an outlay of £1000, or say /2000,
        nay say £4000. You can hardly realise the strategical talent
        and ingenuity with which I have heard a neighbour of mine
        point out how best to secure oneself from intrusion ; and, were
        you to see the country, you would see that in the mountains it is
        much easier than you would suppose.
             I have much to add—indeed I have not begun to enter into
        your arguments as yet—but Mr. Sinclair, nephew to the Dr. who
        was drowned at my place, has arrived and is waiting for me to
        take him up to my place ; his leave of absence is very short and I
        am anxious to shew him every consideration.
             My arguments and full vindication of my policy must wait
        till I return home and be written thence ; you understand that I
        am in no immediate want of money, if it arrive in nine months
        from date that is soon enough, nay if I could be certain of its
        arriving at any definite time I should regard the interest of the
        loan which I shall be compelled to contract as a light matter ; but
        let me beg you to put an end to my uncertainty definitely one

v11                  OTHER INTERESTS                               95
way or the other. As long as you give arguments you leave me 1861
at liberty to counter-argue, and imply no intention of not sending Aet< 25
the money should my arguments counter-balance yours ; and,
though I must urge that I rest my plea upon no arguments but
 upon your own offer, nevertheless I would far rather receive the
money with your conviction than without it. Still, if you have
def1nitely made up your mind not to send it, the kindest thing you
can do is to certify me of the fact with all speed ; for I shall know
how to make my arrangements accordingly, and be able to do
so far better by knowing shortly than immediately before the
money falls due. I might find a good partner or make a more
advantageous loan than if jammed for time.
     I heartily trust that you will not misunderstand this letter. I
am well aware that any reserve on your part is only dictated by
 the best wishes for my own welfare ; had that reserve been made
 from the commencement it would have been all well and good
however I might have regretted it—now it is a widely different
case.—Your affectionate son,
                                                        S. Butler.
     Probably Mrs. Butler intervened and patched up the
quarrel between father and son ; nevertheless Canon
Butler did not send the £1000. It appears as though
Butler received in all £4200, that is the £5200 mentioned
in the letter minus the £1000 he was asking for. A
passage from the account of his friendship with Pauli
is quoted at the end of this chapter, speaking of the
amount as £4400. Whatever the exact sum, it was
not to be repaid—it was considered as advancement in
life.    In addition Canon Butler sent £600 as a loan,
which was intended to be, and no doubt was, repaid.
      The sheep and their welfare did not, however, occupy
all Butler's thoughts.           He continued meditating on
Christianity, and this letter to his cousin, Philip J.
Worsley, shows how far he had been led by the beginning
of 1 86 1. He kept no copy of the letter but Mr. Worsley
kindly lent me the original to use as I might think fit.
The reader should perhaps be reminded that the Worsleys
were Unitarians, and it should be mentioned that Mr.
Philip Worsley was at this time living with his parents in
Taviton Street.

        96                  RELIGIOUS OPINIONS                                    v..
                         Butler to Mr. Philip J. Wonley.
                                                    10 Jan. 1 S 6 1 . Not private.
  1861       My dear Ph1l—Thank you for your note. I embrace the
Aet. 15 opportunity of answering it to resume a communication through
        you with all at Taviton Street. I have been so excessively and un-
        intermittently busy that I have found it hard work enough to write
        home the long letters that I have sent. Now, however, dawns
        the commencement of what I hope will turn out a long period of
        repose—repose that will afford me leisure for a prosecution of
        those studies which I am most deeply interested in, and for that
        mental exercise which I delight in.
             First, let me congratulate you upon your own happy prospect.
        I am not in love myself nor ever have been since certain spooney
        intervals as a boy. I have my ideal—and should I fall in with her
        shall recognise her at a glance, but as yet I have never done so.
        Still I can sympathise with those who have found the haven
        wherein their hearts can rest. My enemies doubt whether I am
        possessed of such an inconvenient piece of lumber at all. I
        believe, however, that it exists.
    ^        Let me recant many religious opinions propounded by me to
        yourself. A wider circle of ideas has resulted from travel, and an
        entire uprooting of all past habits has been accompanied with a
        hardly less entire change of opinions upon many subjects. Firstly,
        I have lost all desire of making other people think the same as
        myself. If any one wishes to know my opinions upon a subject I
        can now content myself with stating them as clearly as I can, but
        I have ceased to regard it as a matter of personal consideration to
        myself whether he agrees with me or no ; for I consider no man
        has a right to demand from another that what appears satisfactory
        to himself should also appear so to that other. This is a very
        simple thing to have come so far to learn ; but it is one of the
        many simple things that I have never learnt before.                 There
        are many no less simple things that I have yet to learn.
             I do not believe that there is a particle of important difference
        between your creed and mine ; I utterly refuse to enter into
        minute disquisitions concerning the nature of the Trinity, and
        damn all who differ from me ; and, without going so far as the
        Archbishop of Constantinople, who affirmed the Athanasian
        Creed to be the composition of a drunken man, I will not
        hesitate to avow my belief that it deserves no more attention than
        if it were.
             True, I believe Jesus Christ to have been the Son of God as
        much now as ever ; but exactly how or exactly in what degree I
        don't care to enquire, for I feel that the enquiry only leads me into

t»              "A CONFIRMED GRAZIER"                             97
paths which human intelligence cannot tread—that is if I follow 1861
the enquiry as I should investigate a scientific subject, and do not Aet. 25
content myself with a refuge behind formulae and cant phrases
of whose meaning, if meaning they really have, I am entirely
ignorant.
     I feel this last paragraph to be severe. It is on my own past
self that I would have the severity fall ; not upon those who still
honourably and in good truth believe that which I also once
believed or professed myself to believe, thinking that I did believe
it, and that I should be condemned eternally if I did not. My
commonplace book is full of notes upon religious subjects, and in
them I can trace the gradual change fromr my old narrow bigoted
tenets to my far happier present latitudinarianism ; but it is
impossible to transcribe them in a letter, and they would not
interest you as they interest me.
     From Gibbon, whom I read very carefully on my voyage out
and whom I continue constantly to snatch at, I fancy that I am
imbibing a calm and philosophic spirit of impartial and critical
investigation. Much as there is in Gibbon which we should J
alike condemn—for, however we may admire his sarcasms, it is J
impossible not at times to feel that he would have acted more/
 nobly in suppressing them—he is a grand historian and the'
 impress of a mighty intellect is upon his work.
     January 23. Cannot finish this. Cannot let another mail
pass without writing. Thank Dick for his letter. Best love to
Uncle and Aunt, Alice, Nora, and you all. —Your aff. cousin,
                                                      S. Butler.
      Butler wrote many letters from New Zealand to his
college friend Marriott, who, in 1882 or thereabouts, at
Butler's request, returned them to him ; he burnt them
after making a few extracts, some of which he used in
 The Way of all Flesh for letters written by Ernest when
he was doing parish work and his religious views were
rapidly altering.         In one of these letters to Marriott,
 8th August 1 86 1, he writes, in a state of dejection about
himself and his prospects :
     I am now a confirmed grazier : little enough, is it not, for
all one's high aspirations to end in ? ... I think I am a Unitarian
now, but don't know and won't say ; as for the Trinity I cannot
make head or tail of it, and feel inclined to agree with a negro
who was heard in church here the other day repeating the
Athanasian weed : " The Father impossible, the Son impossible,
and the Holy Ghost impossible. And yet there are not three
impossibles, but one impossible."
      VOL. I                          "                       H

       98          RENOUNCING CHRISTIANITY                             vn
1862        Professor Sale, when I read him this in MS., told me
  • z6 it was not quite accurate ; he was present in church and
       heard the nigger say " uncomfortable," not " impossible."
       He was reading from his prayer-book and " uncomfort
       able " was as near as he could get to " incomprehensible,"
       which was the word under his eyes.
            In another letter, 14th August 1862, Butler writes :
           I do not mean half the arrogance which I express. Hoare
       [Henry Hoare, another college friend] gave me rather a sharp
       wigging for a letter I wrote him not long since—just a few days
       before I came to see that the death of Jesus Christ was not real.
       He says I swore at the Articles. This, certainly, I should not
       have done : but please think that I am not so conceited as some
       of my friends suppose. I feel strongly and write as I feel ; but I
       am open to conviction, and that I can take in more sides of a
       question than one is proved by the many changes my opinions
       have undergone.
           For the present I renounce Christianity altogether. You say
       people must have something to believe in. I can only say that I
       have not found my digestion impeded since I have left off believing
       in what does not appear to be supported by sufficient evidence.
       As for going to church, I have left it off this twelvemonth and
       more—not because I think it wrong to go to church, but because
       I do not like going and do not feel any good effects from having
       gone. When I went last I made a few notes and on returning
       wrote a short account of what I had heard and felt ; I wrote it
       without either humour or exaggeration, but tried to put down
       bona fide what passed within and without me.
           From this last extract we see that it was not until
       1862 that his studies in the Greek Testament at last
       forced him to the conclusion that Jesus Christ did not die
       upon the Cross. This was the conclusion at which Ernest
      also arrived in Ashpit Place, and, as it was the most
      important event in Ernest's mental development, so it was
      in that of Butler. The more Butler and Ernest studied
      the dogmas of Christianity, the less they liked them. I
      suppose Butler intentionally made Ernest take orders first
      and find out afterwards that he could not believe all he
      was expected to teach, because he wanted to put him in a
      worse fix than he had been in himself; for, however bad
      it may be to do as Buder did—to contemplate becoming a
      clergyman and then refuse—it must be worse in the eyes

v11                        THE PRESS                             99
of the Theobalds to do as Ernest did and, after actually 1862
turning up a few furrows, to draw back.                             Aet. 26
       Having arrived at his conclusion, Butler began to
 place on record an apologia for his conduct. Feeling
strongly, he wrote as he felt, and stated as clearly as he
could his reasons for disbelieving in the alleged death and
 resurrection of Jesus Christ. It took him some time to
get all he wanted to say down on paper ; and, after he
returned to England, it was printed as the pamphlet which
 is dealt with more fully in the succeeding chapter : The
 Evidence for the Resurrection of Jesus Christ as given by the
 Four Evangelists critically examined (1865).
       On the 25th May 1861 appeared the first number of
 The Press, a newspaper founded by James Edward Fitz-
Gerald, the first Superintendent of the Province. Butler
was an intimate friend of FitzGerald, was closely associated
with the paper, and frequently wrote for it ; at one time
during FitzGerald's absence he was in charge of it for
some months, but he was never its regular editor.
       Professor Sale was the editor during the first six
 months of its existence. He was four years Butler's
 senior and had been educated at Rugby and Trinity
 College, Cambridge; he arrived in the colony in 1861
 and, after being in Christchurch for some time, was for
 thirty years Professor of Classics in the University of
 Dunedin (Otago). He returned to England recently and
 gave me many particulars about Butler's life in New
 Zealand.
       The Origin of Species, as every one knows, was pub
 lished in the autumn of 1859. Copies soon arrived in
the colony and Butler read it. In 1880 he wrote in the
Introduction to Unconscious Memory :
     I became one of Mr. Darwin's many enthusiastic admirers,
and wrote a philosophical dialogue (the most offensive form, except
poetry and books of travel into supposed unknown countries, that
even literature can assume) upon The Origin of Species. This
production appeared in The Press, Canterbury, New Zealand, in
 1 86 1 or 1862, but I have long lost the only copy I had.
       The Press celebrated its jubilee on 25th May 19 u

         1oo           "DIALOGUE ON SPECIES"                             v.1
  1863 and reprinted two of Butler's early contributions, but not
Aet. 27 this £)ial0gue. I wrote to Mr. Triggs, the editor, about
        it, and he searched the files of the paper but could not
        find it. I gave it up for lost until one day, in 19 12,
        Mr. R. A. Streatfeild, Butler's literary executor, showed
        me an entry in a catalogue of Mr. Tregaskis, of Holborn,
        stating that he had for sale an autograph letter by Charles
        Darwin to the editor of some, presumably, English news
        paper enclosing a Dialogue on Species from a New Zealand
        newspaper. Both Streatfeild and I thought this could
        only relate to Butler's Dialogue. I called in Holborn,
        saw and bought the letter, which runs thus :
                                              Down, Bromley, Kent, S.E.
                                                       March 24.
            Mr. Darwin takes the liberty to send by this post to the
        Editor a New Zealand newspaper for the very improbable chance
        of the Editor having some time spare space to print a Dialogue
        upon Species. This Dialogue, written by someone quite unknown
        to Mr. Darwin, is remarkable from its spirit and from giving so
        clear and accurate a view of Mr. D.'s theory. It is also remarkable
        from being published in a Colony exactly 12 years old, in which
        it might have been thought only material interests would have
        been regarded.
             It will be observed that this letter is dated only
        " March 24." There can, however, be no doubt that
        it refers to Butler's Dialogue and that it was written in
        1863. I presented it to the Canterbury Museum, Christ-
        church, and sent with it a long letter telling all I could
        ascertain about the Dialogue. My letter appeared in The
        Press, 1st June 19 12 ; its publication, together with the
        presentation of Darwin's autograph, stimulated further
        search, and in The Press of 20th December 1862 the Dia
        logue was found by Miss Colborne-Veel, whose father
        succeeded Professor Sale and was editor of the paper at
        the time Butler was writing for it. The Press reprinted
        the Dialogue, 8th June 191 2.
             When the Dialogue first appeared it excited a great
        deal of discussion in the colony. Dr. Abraham, Bishop
        of Wellington, N.Z., wrote to The Press an article which
        Butler in a letter to Darwin (1865 post, p. 124) calls "a

 v.1   "DARWIN AMONG THE "MACHINES"                     101 '
 contemptuous rejoinder." This was entitled " Barrel- 1863
 Organs," the idea being that there was nothing new in Aet. 2J
  The Origin of Species ; it was only a grinding-out of old
 tunes with which we were all familiar. To this Butler
 replied with a letter signed " A. M.," and there was more
 correspondence. The Bishop's article and the resulting
 letters were reprinted by The Press, 15th June 191 2.
 Copies of those numbers of The Press of 191 2 which
 contain my letter, the reprint of the Dialogue, and the
 correspondence that followed are in the British Museum.
 Mr. Streatfeild reprinted the Dialogue and most of the
 correspondence in the 19 14 edition of A First Tear in
 Canterbury Settlement.
      In The Press of Saturday, 13th June 1863, among
 the correspondence, appeared a letter headed " Darwin
 among the Machines."         It opens: "S1r — There are
 few things of which the present generation is more
 justly proud than of the wonderful improvements which
 are daily taking place in all sorts of mechanical appli
 ances," and goes on to say that as the vegetable king
 dom was developed from the mineral, and as the animal
 kingdom supervened upon the vegetable, " so now in
'these last few ages an entirely new kingdom has sprung
 up, of which we as yet have only seen what will be
 one day considered the antediluvian prototypes of the
 race." The writer then speaks of the minute members
 which compose the beautiful and intelligent little animal
 which we call the watch, and of how it has gradually been
 evolved from the clumsy brass clocks of the thirteenth
 century. Then comes the question, Who will be man's
 successor ? to which the answer is, We are ourselves
 creating our own successors. " Man will have become •
 to the machine what the horse and the dog are to man."
 The letter, which ends in the usual way, " I am, Sir,
 etc.," and is signed " Cellarius," was written by Butler
 and was one or the results of his reading The Origin of
Species. He gave a cutting from The Press, including
the whole letter, to the British Museum, and it is indexed
under his works there. The letter was reprinted in the
jubilee number of The Press, 25th May 1911, and is

       1o2       ; *;NQTE| £>N;\T'HE TEMPEST"                        «,
 1864 included in The Note-Books of Samuel Butler (191 2) and in
AeL 28 the 1 9 14 edition of A First Tear.
           In March 1864 a small volume (vii. + 73 pp.) was
       published at Christchurch, printed at The Times office,
       entitled Literary Foundlings.           It consists of pieces in
       prose and verse by Canterbury writers, and was to be
       sold at a bazaar held on behalf of the Christchurch
       Orphan Asylum. The names of the authors are not
       given in the index, but Mr. Alexander H. Turnbull of
       Wellington, New Zealand, most kindly sent me a copy
       of the volume, in which he has pencilled the real names
       from a list supplied to him by Dr. T. M. Hocken,
       author of A Bibliography relating to New Zealand Litera
       ture (Wellington, 1909) ; and I have given the book to
       the British Museum, which had no copy. The names
       include, among others, Canon Cottrell, Dean Jacobs,
       James Edward FitzGerald, Archdeacon Harper, C. C.
       Bowen, Mrs. Pauli, and Samuel Butler, whose name is
       given, I have no doubt correctly, as the author of
       the article headed "Note on The Tempest, Act III.
       Sc. i."     The passage in The Tempest is the speech
       of Miranda begging Ferdinand not to work so hard
       piling logs :
                                                  My father
                     Is hard at study ; pray now rest yourself;
                     He's safe for these three hours.
           On this Butler comments : " Safe. If she had only said
       that ' papa was safe ' the sentence would have been purely
       modern, and have suited Thackeray as well as Shakspeare.
       See how quickly she has learned to regard her father as
       one to be watched and probably kept in a good humour
       for the sake of Ferdinand." The whole article is repro
       duced in the 19 14 edition of A First Tear.
           Butler made many friends in New Zealand. Mr.
       John H. Baker, Government Surveyor, accompanied him
       on the journey which formed the basis of the entry into
       Erewhon. Mr. Baker came to the second Erewhon dinner
       in London in July 1909, and made a speech giving an
       account of this journey.

v11             NEW ZEALAND FRIENDS                     103
      Frederick Napier Broome had a sheep-station in 1861-186+
 Canterbury. In 1865 he married the widow of Captain
 George R. Barker, Royal Artillery, who was made K.C.B.
 for his services in the Indian Mutiny. She continued to
 call herself Lady Barker, and accompanied Broome back
 to his run. They returned to England in 1869, and in
 1870 Lady Barker published her colonial experiences as
 Station Life in New Zealand. In 1882 Broome was
 made Governor of Western Australia, and in 1884 a
 K.C.M.G., after which his wife called herself Lady
 Broome. Butler occasionally saw them when they were
 in England.
      Edward Wingfield Humphries helped Butler to
 improve his run by lending him, on no security, a con
 siderable sum of money at a time when he wanted it very
 badly ; probably he was expecting money from his father
 and it had not arrived.
      Another friend was Alexander Lean, who had a run
 on the Rakaia river near Mount Hutt. He gave up his
 run and lived in Christchurch, where he practised as an
 architect and became Colonel of Volunteers. Butler used
 to meet him at the club. Professor Sale, writing to me,
 said of him, " He was a pleasant witty fellow, and took
 a prominent part in music amongst them." In 1893
 Butler received two letters from Colonel Lean, from
 which extracts are given post, and he wrote in reply a
 characteristic letter, also given post (II. p. 171).
      Butler knew in the colony Mr. J. D. Enys, of Enys,
 Penryn, Cornwall, whom I met once or twice at Butler's
 rooms in London. The photograph of the hut referred
 to in the next letter is that from which I made the sketch
 at the opening of this chapter. I ought to apologise for
 my sketch ; I did the best I could, but the photograph,
 besides being faded, is a mere smudge for about an inch
and a half all along the left side ; Enys did not take it
himself.
               Mr. J. D. Enys to H. F. Jones.
     9 March 1904—My first acquaintance with S. Butler was
in March 1862 when he came, with a flock of sheep he was

          104                     MR. J. D. ENYS                           vh
1861-1864 driving to Mesopotamia, to Mr. J. B. Acland's sheep-run on the
          Rangitata just below where the river leaves the mountains. I
          went with him to help him, and camped out one night, without
          a tent, on the way up to his house. Got to Mesopotamia late,
          and remember saying that some things in the loft over the bed
          room looked like casts of hands in the half light of the fire, and
          was astonished to hear they were casts.—one of the last things I
          expected to see in the mountains.
              There were two huts, one for himself and partner, John
          Brabazon, who joined him while I was there, and the other the
          kitchen and men's hut. You are right in saying he had a piano
          in the hut and often played fugues, and chaffed me for not know
          ing one tune from another, and saying what I lost by this.
               I lent Butler a photo of the hut, which he had copied ; it was
          built of mud or cob, and thatched with the long grass known as
          snow grass, a species of Danthonia.
               On one occasion I rode up to Mesopotamia, and Butler took
          me to see the place he had chosen for a pig-sty, which he said he
          thought a good one ; but when I said I thought it a perfect place
          as the whole drainage went into the drinking water, he remarked
          that I was dreadfully practical. On another occasion I said I
          had been to the top of a mountain near, and said I had suggested
          it should be named after the Scotch shepherd [McLeod] who was
          the first to ascend it, and who took me up on the second occasion.
          To my amusement he said he would not have me coming up and
           giving foreign names to the hills. The answer was self-evident,
           as I asked him what language Mesopotamia was.
               When leaving Mesopotamia he took lodgings in Christ-
           church, and devoted himself to work on the newspaper called
           The Press.
                In another letter Mr. Enys wrote : " I never remember
           Butler drawing or sketching in New Zealand, and I do
           not think he ever painted.              He studied his Greek
           Testament and read and wrote a great deal. Music was,
           of course, one of his great delights."
                From another letter it appears that Butler gave the
           name of the Two Thumbs Peak to a part of the mountains
           showing up the Rangitata valley, and was indignant with
           Enys for the practical suggestion of calling it simply the
           Split Peak.
                In the colony Butler knew Dr. Fisher, who afterwards
            married Miss Arabella Buckley. He also knew Miss
            Buckley after his return to London. I wrote to her

t.1                   CAPTAIN SIMEON                          105
 ask1ng for particulars of the friendship between her 1861-1864
 husband and Butler, and she replied 12th March 191 1 :
      Yes, Dr. Fisher had a sheep-run called "The Grampian
  Hills" about 20 miles, I think, below Mr. Butler, who used to
  ride over occasionally and play whist. Dr. Fisher went out in
  1854 and made a large practice in Christchurch. He invested
  money in this sheep-run with a Mr. Wynn Williams, a lawyer,
 and after he gave away his practice lived a good deal on the run.
  He sold the run in 1882 and came home. I had known him the
  greater part of my life, and when engaged to him in 1883 we
  were walking through the rooms of the Tinworth Exhibition
  and met Mr. Butler. I shall never forget his look of amazement
 as he said : " Good Lord ! How did you two come together ? "
       One of Butler's most intimate friends in New Zealand
 was William Sefton Moorhouse, the second Superintendent
 of the Province, whose " brother, Dr. Ben Moorhouse, had
 a run next but one to Mesopotamia on the plains, some
 twenty miles off, a near distance in New Zealand "
  [J. D. Enys]. It was Moorhouse who invited Sir Julius
  von Haast to come to Canterbury to examine the geological
  formation of the hill through which, by Moorhouse's
  exertions, the tunnel was pierced—the tunnel of a mile
  and a quarter which connected Port Lyttelton with the
  Canterbury Plains and brought the markets of the world
  within reach of the farmers of the province. The tunnel
  —an enormous work to be undertaken and completed by
  a small town such as Christchurch then was—was opened
  in 1867.      A statue of Moorhouse stands in the public
  gardens as a tribute to his statesmanship.
       Here is a note of Butler's about
                           Capta1n S1meon
      Simeon was leaving the Canterbury Settlement without pay
  ing the rent for a house he had taken from Templer of the
  Waimakiriri. In point of fact the rent was not due ; never
  theless Templer attacked him, in words, with some violence
 just as he was about to embark. Simeon explained that his
 agent would pay the rent in due course when quarter-day
 came, and the matter ended. On this a certain man, named
 Wright, wrote :

          106                   W. S. MOORHOUSE                          vh
1861-1864       He was leaving the Settlement, half broken-hearted,
                For his friends to his going would hardly consent ;
                But he came to a settlement ere he departed,
                And the last tie which bound the poor pilgrim was—rent.
                This man, Wright, was seriously ill at Lyttelton, and
          Moorhouse went over the hills from Christchurch to see
          him for the last time. After Moorhouse had stayed a
          little while, Wright said to him, quite naturally :
                " Be pleased to leave the room ; I wish to die."
                Moorhouse did as he was told, and in a few minutes
          all was over.
                Moorhouse took Butler on the first locomotive engine
          that ever ran in New Zealand, on its first run between
          Christchurch and the Heathcote.
                Moorhouse once said to Butler, " Very handsome, well-
          dressed men are seldom very good men." On this Butler
          wrote :
               I liked Moorhouse very much, and, being young, listened
          deferentially to all he said. I did not like to hear him say this,
          for I knew I liked men to be handsome and well-dressed. I
          have thought about it a great deal during the more than twenty
          years that have passed since Moorhouse's words were spoken, and
          even now I do not know what to say. Sometimes they are and
          sometimes they are not. [1882.]
                Butler, with these words of Moorhouse in his mind,
          used often to warn me that men with charming manners
          are seldom to be trusted. But it is open to doubt whether
          such a warning was ever useful as a prophylactic.
                One other New Zealand friend of Butler's remains to
          be mentioned—Charles Paine Pauli. He was educated
          at Winchester and Pembroke College, Oxford, and was
          about i\ years younger than Butler. He had a brother
          in New Zealand whom Butler knew as Resident Magistrate
          at Kaiapoi. I suppose it was the wife of the resident
          magistrate who contributed to Literary Foundlings men
          tioned above, for Charles Pauli never married.                He
          probably went to the colony because his brother was
          established there, and he found employment as sub-editor
          of The Press at a salary of jT 1 50 a year. Butler met him
          once or twice in the early months of 1863 at the club,

vh               CHARLES PAINE PAULI                             107
but they never spoke till they were thrown into contact 1863
at the office of the paper. Pauli was a great favourite ' et. 27
with Mr. and Mrs. FitzGerald and with all their children
 and indeed with every one, for they all admired him and
 thought highly of him : wherever he went, it was always
 the same, high and low, everyone was taken with the
 charm of his manners and appearance. Butler was always
 nervous and diffident about his own manners and appear
 ance unless he was interested in the company or the
 conversation, and then he forgot everything else. This
 wore off to a certain extent as he got older, but to the
last he used to make bread pills at a dinner-party.
      After Pauli's death in 1897, Buder wrote in the
account of their friendship :
     I have a high opinion of Winchester men now, but I had a
 higher then. We Johnians looked on Oxford men as being
a good deal above ourselves, at any rate in outward appearance
 and address. I knew myself utterly unable to get a suit of clothes
 that would fit me. Redfarn & Banham's clothes never fitted me
 when I was at Cambridge, much less did those made for me by
 Hobbs at Christchurch ; while on my run I generally wore slop
 clothes ready made. Pauli's clothes must have cost at least twice
 as much as mine did. Everything that he had was good, and he
 was such a fine handsome fellow, with such an attractive manner,
 that to me he seemed everything I should like myself to be,
 but knew very well that I was not. I knew myself to be plebeian
 in appearance and believed myself to be more plebeian in tastes
 than I probably in reality was ; at any rate I knew that I was
 far from being all that I should wish myself either in body or
 mind. . . .
     When I first met Pauli I was younger than my years, and
 would catch at anyone who I thought was stronger than myself.
 How it happened that the ^4400 I had had from my father had
 become £8000 in between 4 and 5 years, though it had reached
 me piecemeal, and some of it not till near the end of the time
 I was in New Zealand, I cannot conceive ; the marvel is that
 I had not lost every penny of it—but so it was. My sheep had
 bred ; wool had kept high and so had sheep ; runs which were
 pretty cheap when I reached New Zealand had gone up greatly
in value. I had got hold of mine bit by bit and had pieced it
 into a compact, large, well-bounded, and, in all respects, desirable
property ; but I was heavily involved with my merchants ; I saw
that if things fell—as they presently did—I might easily be

         1o8                    SELLING OUT                             VII
  1863 cornered. I felt moreover that the life was utterly uncongenial
Aet. 27 to me ; and I thought it wiser to sell and go home, leaving my
        money in New Zealand at 10%, which was the rate of interest
        then current.
             In September 1863 Butler was staying at the Carlton
        Hotel on the Papanui Road making arrangements with
        this object when one evening Pauli called upon him and
        stayed talking till midnight.
            His visit was unexpected ; I had not called on him and had
        no intention of doing so : I was surprised at his calling on me,
        but he was doing his best to please, and when he left I was
        suddenly aware that I had become intimate with a personality
        quite different from that of anyone whom I had ever known.
             Butler's affairs took some months to be settled, and
        during all the time he and Pauli were constantly together.
        It seems to have been one of those one-sided friendships
        sometimes met with in real life, as well as in books, when
        the diffident, poetical, shy man becomes devoted to the
        confident, showy, worldly man, as a dog to his master.
             Pauli was not happy in New Zealand ; moreover he
        was thoroughly out of health and kept getting worse and
        worse, bearing great pain with that fortitude which he
        continued to show during many years of ill-health. Butler
        was fully persuaded that if he remained longer in the
        colony he would die, and determined to do what he could
        to avert such a calamity. He was rather apt to take
        a gloomy view as to the health of any one he liked.
        Pauli's wish was to go home, recover his health under
        English doctors, get called to the Bar, return to New
        Zealand and practise there.
            The only drawback was that he had no money—nothing in
        fact beyond a reversion to some ^4000 or ^5000 on the death of
        his father and mother, which was already in part anticipated. I
        believed myself worth not less than ^8oo a year. What could
        be simpler than for me to say I would lend him jf 100 to take
        him home and (say) /200 a year for three years till he could get
        called and go out to New Zealand again ? He was to repay me
        when he came into his reversion, and if more was wanted his
        father and mother might be relied upon to do it. To me, in
        those days, this seemed perfectly easy ; and Pauli, I have not the

»n                THE VOYAGE HOME                             109
smallest doubt, intended and fully believed—for his temperament 1864
was always sanguine—that he should be able to repay me.           Aet. 28
     The plan was agreed upon and they came to England,
travelling with James Selfe, a son of the London
Stipendiary Magistrate, and Mr. William Aubrey Willes
of Astrop, Northamptonshire, who kindly wrote to me
on 6th December 1 9 1 2 with this account of the voyage :
    We sailed from Lyttelton, the port of Canterbury, N.Z. on
June 15, 1864, in mid-winter and in a southerly gale which
increased during the first night out to a hurricane ; and we were
nearly driven on the coast of the North Island, which was then
involved in a war between the settlers and the Maoris, the latter
being half cannibals at that period ; and, had we been driven
ashore, nothing could have prevented us from being eaten up by
the natives. The wind was so high that it broke our main yard
clean in half, and I well recollect the noise which the disaster
made ; the shock to the little vessel was so great that everyone
on board thought we had struck a rock. The vessel was only
400 tons, a sailing bark of American build and ownership, and
a Captain Lunt commanded her — no steam in those days.
Losing the use of our main sail prolonged our voyage very much.
    We arrived in Callao harbour on the 25th July. The early
morning of the first day in harbour was memorable for the
occurrence of a severe earthquake. We were awoke in our
bunks at 5 a.m. by the vessel giving a great lurch and every
timber in the ship sounded as though it was going to fall to
pieces.
    We stayed at Lima for a few days, and saw the Peruvian army
being reviewed upon the occasion of the anniversary of their In
dependence. I well recollect the cavalry were mounted on mules ;
and I have a photograph of the scene, as well as other views of
Lima which I brought away with me, still in my possession.
    We steamed up the coast to Panama, which was then a hot-bed
of yellow fever. No big steamer could get nearer than about
nine miles from Panama in consequence of the shallowness of the
Bay, so we were put into flat-bottomed steam tenders which
landed us at the town. Whilst being conveyed up the Bay we
were followed by immense shoals of sharks swimming after us,
looking out for a meal. I think we stayed two nights at Panama,
the prevailing occupation of the inhabitants being to look on at
various cock-fights going on in the principal streets. We went
across the Isthmus of Panama by train of a miniature type, and,
as the ticket for the journey of 45 miles cost ^5, and one was
charged at the rate of 2 Id. per lb. for luggage, it was a costly

         no                   ENGLAND AGAIN                           v.1
  1864. journey. I left several nice books, which I was bringing home,
Aet. 28 at Panama, not considering they were worth such a high charge.
            We left Colon, the port on this side of the Isthmus, in a
        small steamer for S. Thomas where the large steamer started from
        for Southampton. We touched at Jamaica, en route, reaching
        S. Thomas Island where we changed steamers. Yellow fever
        was so bad at S. Thomas that none of us landed there. Our
        homeward steamer was one of the finest boats of the Royal Mail
        Company, and was worked by huge paddles. Our captain
        succumbed to fever soon after leaving S. Thomas, and many of
        the lady passengers were refugees from the Southern States of
        America (U.S.), for the war between North and South was in full
        swing at that time. Our voyage ended at Southampton on the
        29th August 1864, and we parted never to meet again.
            1 knew Pauli intimately in N.Z. He was helping on a
        sheep station about 40 miles N. of Christchurch. I fancy after
        arriving in England he took up law.
            Butler wrote the address of his home at his father's rectory
        in my note-book on landing with a view to corresponding, but
        our tastes differed and no correspondence passed between us.
             In Butler's note of his friendship with Pauli it is stated
        that the name of the ship on which they travelled from
        S. Thomas was the Shannon, and that they carried
        ,£3,000,000 in silver ingots, which they saw being brought
        on board without packing ; they were told it was the
        largest amount that had ever crossed the Atlantic at
        one time.
            Pauli was very ill all the voyage, but no one except
        Butler suspected any suffering on his part ; it was not
        until long after he reached England that his health began
        to improve. And whereas the climate of New Zealand
        had disagreed with Pauli, it had done Butler good. He
        had hitherto been considered to be of a feeble constitution,
        but his open-air life in the colony set him up, and until
        near the end of his days he seldom had any illness. It is
        true that in some of his letters, which are given later on,
        he speaks of being ill ; but after his return from New
        Zealand until his health began to fail, these illnesses were
        merely temporary indispositions. Occasionally he would
        take the view that he was not robust, contending that he
        was too easily upset for a really strong man. I would then
        admit that I had known him to pass a day in his rooms,

VII                      HEALTH                           111
and even part of a day in bed. But there was usually a 1864
reason. Once, I remember, it was a bad lobster. The Ael. 28
consequences were violent, but of short duration ; and he
treated the occurrence as a mauvaise plaisanterie on the
part of God—or the Devil—to pay him out for something
he had done, or left undone. This, however, did not
affect his original point ; it rather provided an illustration
in confirmation of the view that a man whose stomach is
not equal to dealing with rotten fish cannot with propriety
be considered robust. I suppose he was then getting to
an age when even those with strong digestions must be
careful.

                           CHAPTER VIII
                                 1 864-1 870
               LONDON AND THE EVIDENCE FOR THE
                            RESURRECTION
 1864 Butler and Pauli arrived in London in the autumn of
A«. 28 r864, and by September were settled in Clifford's Inn,
       Fleet Street, in two sets of chambers which Pauli found.
       The set occupied by Pauli was at the top of No. 3 and
       the rent was £12 per annum. The set occupied by
       Butler was at No. 15, on the second floor, the north side
       of the staircase, and consisted of a sitting-room, a bed
       room, a painting-room, a pantry, and a passage with
       cupboards in it.      The bed -room and painting-room
       looked east over Fetter Lane ; the sitting-room and
       pantry looked west over the garden of Clifford's Inn.
       The sitting-room was very hot on summer afternoons ;
       it had two windows and an iron balcony which is shown
       in a water-colour by Philip Norman now in the London
       Museum. Butler lived here all the rest of his life. At
       first the rent was ,£23 ; by 1898 it had been raised to
       ^28, or about ^36 in all, including rates and taxes.
       Water was not laid on and had to be fetched from below
       in the court. An old woman came in the morning to
       clean up, make his bed, etc. He and Pauli breakfasted
       and generally spent the evening together.
            But Pauli did not stay in Clifford's Inn more than
       about a year ; he said it was intolerable and he must have
       a more airy situation, so he went into lodgings in the
       West End. He was in Clifford's Inn in February 1866,
       staying in Butler's chambers, with a mild attack of typhoid
                                      112

T1n                  BUTLER AND PAUL1                           113
fever through which Butler nursed him. They occasion- 1864
ally went out of town together, and in the autumn of et. 2
 1866 spent a month at Dieppe ; at the end of the month
Pauli said that, though he believed Butler had been
pretty happy, he himself had never been so miserable
in his life.       So they never went away together again,
nor to any theatre or place of amusement, and soon only
met for an hour or less every day when Pauli came to
lunch at Butler's early dinner. When Pauli changed his
lodgings he left off telling Butler his new address unless
Butler asked him, so he soon left off asking him.
      The following is taken from Butler's account of the
relations between himself and Pauli :
     I had felt from the very beginning that my intimacy with
 Pauli was only superficial, and I also perceived more and more
that I bored him. I have not the least doubt that I did so, and
I am afraid he is not the only one of my friends who has had
to put up with much from me on the same score. He cared
little for literature and nothing for philosophy, music, or the arts.
I studied art and he law. Law interested him whereas it was
nothing to me. He liked society and I hated it. Moreover, he
was at times very irritable and would find continual fault with
me ; often, I have no doubt, justly, but often, as it seemed to me,
unreasonably. Devoted to him as I continued to be for many
years, those years were very unhappy as well as very happy ones.
      I set down a great deal to his ill-health, no doubt truly ; a
great deal more, I was sure, was my own fault—and I am so
still ; I excused much on the score of his poverty and his
dependence on myself—for his father and mother, when it came
to the point, could do nothing for him ; I was his host and was
bound to forbear on that ground if on no other. I always hoped
that, as time went on, and he saw how absolutely devoted to him
I was, and what unbounded confidence I had in him, and how I
forgave him over and over again for treatment that I should
not have stood for a moment from any one else—I always hoped
that he would soften and deal as frankly and unreservedly with
me as I with him ; but, though for some fifteen years I hoped
this, in the end I gave it up, and settled down into a resolve
from which I never departed—to do all I could for him, to avoid
friction of any kind, and to make the best of things for him and
for myself that circumstances would allow. For the last fifteen
years or so not an angry or an unkind word has ever passed
between us.
     VOL. I                                                   I

        1 14                   ART AND LAW                            vm
 1864        But I am anticipating. I have no means of ascertaining
Aet. 28 now mucn Pauli had from me between the years 1864 and 1880
        or 1881. I kept no accounts; I took no receipts from him;
        the understanding was that he would repay me when he came
        into his reversion ; but there was no formal document until,
        about the year 1872 or 1873, he gave me, whether at my instance
        or his I cannot remember, an assignment of his interest in his
        reversion to the extent of /2200.
            I see from the letter I wrote to my father 4th Nov. 1879
        [post, p. 313] that I only admitted having helped Pauli from time
        to time ; the fact was I had done everything that was necessary
        to get him called—books, fees, etc.—and to live. I had more
        than shared every penny I had with him, but I believed myself
        to be doing it out of income and to have a right to do it. After
        he was called, FitzGerald wrote to him pressing him to come out
        to New Zealand. He showed me this letter, and I said I thought
        he ought to go. To my unbounded surprise he burst into tears
        —a thing I had never seen him do, though I had done it often
        enough myself. That, from him, at that time, was enough to
        settle the matter; but I was alarmed, for I had begun to be
        uneasy, as well I might, about money matters. [1898.]
             Pauli was called to the bar in 1867, and took chambers
        in Lincoln's Inn for his work. He told Butler where
        they were, so that he could write if he had any communi
        cation to make to him that would not wait till they met,
        but Butler was not to go there. Of course he could
        have gone, but he did not ; he could have found out in
        a hundred ways where Pauli lived if he had set about
        it ; but, knowing that Pauli did not wish it, he did
        nothing.
             Butler studied art at the well-known school in
        Streatham Street, Bloomsbury ; the house is no longer
        a school of art, but there is a bust of Minerva still (19 16)
        over the portico. The school was formerly managed by
        Mr. Henry Sass ; in Butler's time it had been taken
        over by Mr. Francis Stephen Cary, son of Dr. Butler's
        schoolfellow, the Rev. Henry Francis Cary, the friend
        of Charles Lamb and translator of Dante.                 Among
        Butler's fellow students at Streatham Street was Mr.
        H. R. Robertson, who told me that the students had got
        hold of the legend which is in some of the books about
        Lamb, that when F. S. Cary was a boy, and there was

vn1                "FAMILY PRAYERS"                            "5
talk about what profession he should take up, Lamb, 18 64
who was present, said : " I should make him an apo- Aet. 28
po-pothe-Cary."
    The students used to repeat this story freely, being
no doubt amused by the Lamb-like pun, but also enjoying
the malicious pleasure of hinting that it might have been
as well for their art education if the advice of the gentle
humorist had been followed. Any one who wishes to
form an opinion on F. S. Cary's ability as an artist can
see in the National Portrait Gallery his picture of Charles
and Mary Lamb.
                        Fam1ly Prayers
    In 1864, immediately upon my return from New Zealand, 1
began a picture which I called " Family Prayers," and which is
certainly one of the very funniest things I have seen outside
Italian votive pictures. I never finished it, but have kept it and
hope it will not be destroyed after my death.
     The picture is now in my possession and I have no
intention of destroying it ; on the contrary I have had it
reproduced as the frontispiece to vol. II. of this Memoir.
The figures are not intended to be portraits, but the room
is the drawing-room at Langar, and the copies of the
Carlo Dolce and the Sassoferrato which Dr. Butler brought
back from Italy (and so did George Pontifex) are hanging
on the wall ; I have seen them at Wilderhope, the house
of Butler's sisters at Shrewsbury. The piano is his own
piano in Clifford's Inn. The carpet appears to be of an
impossible shape, but that is because it is unfinished ; he
grew tired of putting in the little touches which represent
the pattern. The shadows require explanation. The
light falls on the picture-frames from the spectator's right,
and on the servants' heads from the left. Many years
after painting this picture he wrote in pencil, on the
ceiling, the words which appear under the title in the
reproduction : " I did this in 1864 and if I had gone on
doing things out of my own head instead of making copies
I should have been all right." The idea underlying these
words—that one should learn to draw by drawing and by
trying to please one's self, and not by going to an academy

         n6                        DR. HAAST                            VIII
  1864 and trying to please other people—is developed in Alps
Aet. zS and Sanctuaries, chapter xiii. " Considerations on the
        Decline of Italian Art."
             Dr. Haast, in New Zealand, had been sending plants
        to Dr. (afterwards Sir Joseph) Hooker who, in the preface
        to his Handbook of the New Zealand Flora (1864),
        acknowledged his indebtedness to his correspondent ; and
        later, on page 733, speaks of Dr. Julius Haast, F.L.S. and
        F.G.S., " whose botanical discoveries have so greatly en
        riched this volume." There is a statement among Butler's
        letters that the publication of Hooker's book was delayed
        so that it might include plants sent from New Zealand by
        Dr. Haast. In 1864 Dr. Haast, at Butler's instigation,
        sent a quantity of New Zealand plants also to Langar, and
        Canon Butler made out the greater part of them in Dr.
        Hooker's Handbook.
             In 1864 Canon Butler was occupied in rebuilding
        Langar Church, " a fine antient structure " of about 1 200.
        This is why Theobald restored Battersby Church ; and
        Butler intended to give an idea of the manner in which
        it was done by including in The Way of All Flesh a
        reproduction of a careful outline he made of the church
        at Knockholt, in Kent, that being the most suitably
        restored church he knew within an easy distance of
        London ; but it seemed impracticable to publish a novel
        with only one illustration.
             Butler wrote many letters to Dr. Haast, whose son,
        Mr. Heinrich von Haast of Wellington, New Zealand,
        kindly lent them to me when he was in London.
                                Butler to Dr. Haast.
             14 Feb. 1865 — I have been taking lessons in painting ever
        since I arrived. I was always very fond of it and mean to stick to
        it ; it suits me and I am not without hopes that I shall do well at
        it. I live almost the life of a recluse, seeing very few people and
        going nowhere that I can help—I mean in the way of parties and
        so forth ; if my friends had their will they would fritter away my
        time without any remorse ; but I made a regular stand against it
        from the beginning, and so, having my time pretty much in my
        own hands, work hard. I find, as I am sure you must find, that

vm                   FOREIGN TOUR                          117
it is next to impossible to combine what is commonly called 1865
Society and work. Here are two good titles for mock scientific Aet. 29
papers "The Dynamical Theory of Grief" and "The Molecular
Action of Thought." Might not some good nonsense with half
sense be written on the subject ?
     The time Butler saved by not going to parties
was not entirely devoted to painting. He rewrote and
enlarged his letter to the New Zealand Press, " Darwin
among the Machines," and it was republished as " The
Mechanical Creation," signed " S. B.," on 1st July
 1865 in The Reasoner, a paper then published in London
by Mr. G. J. Holyoake. There is a copy in the British
Museum. He also wrote other articles (see post, p. 133).
     In this year (1865) he was twice at Langar with his
people.     He was abroad from 17th August to 21st
September ; his route, arranged with a view to seeing
pictures, took him through Antwerp, Ghent, Bruges, Paris,
Macon, Turin, Milan, Bologna, Florence, Leghorn, thence
by steamer to Genoa, and back via Turin, Macon, Paris
and London. The captain of the steamer was Giovanni
Gianni, and Butler used him for the captain of the ship
in which Mr. Higgs and Arowhena were picked up in
chapter xxv. of Erewhon.
     In 1865 he printed the pamphlet, which he had begun
to write in New Zealand, entitled The Evidence for the
Resurrection of Jesus Christ as given by the Four Evangelists
critically examined (London, 1865). The author's name
does not appear, nor does that of Williams & Norgate,
who had it printed for him. It is a buff paper-covered
brochure, 7^x5 inches, of viii + 48 pp. and must be
very scarce. I believe I never saw it during his lifetime,
though he often spoke of it ; after his death we found a
few copies in his rooms. There are now three in the
British Museum, with MS. notes by Butler.               In the
preface he says :
    I have no doubt that the line of argument taken in the
following pages is a very old one, and familiar to all who have
extended their reading on the subject of Christianity beyond
the common English books. ... I may be asked, then, why I
have printed my MS. at all. I would answer, because I knew

        n8                 THE RESURRECTION                            »...
  1865 of no English work in which- my remarks were embodied
Aet. 29 and because I am sure that comparatively few, even among
        educated Englishmen, are aware how conflicting the accounts
        of the Resurrection are, or how easily they afford their own
        explanation if they are at all closely examined. I have asked
        people over and over again to tell me the difference between St.
        Matthew's account of the Resurrection and St. John's, and they
        could not do it without the book. Clergymen are just as
        ignorant upon the subject as laymen. I generally endeavour
        accidentally to ascertain from any clergyman whether he has a
        distinct conception of the circumstances of the Resurrection : the
        result I have found to be so uniform as to assure me that I am
        quite justified in printing the following pages. . . .
            My chief regret is that no publisher of position will publish
        heresy so rank as mine. ... It stands just thus. A man has
        remarks to make on certain discrepancies of the four Evangelists,
        remarks which must occur to anyone who has tried to put the
        four narratives together, and which, even if they be erroneous,
        should be published in order that their error may b'e publicly
        exposed instead of being latently held by hundreds ; and yet
        no publisher of position can make them public, even if he
        would, without doing himself a greater injury than he would be
        warranted in doing.
             I will endeavour to state shortly the line taken in the
        pamphlet. We have to consider the evidence for the
        alleged miracle of the death and resurrection of Jesus
        Christ. Other miracles are recorded in the gospels but
        they need not detain us because (1) if Christ actually died
        and rose from the dead, they become dwarfed into in
        significance ; and (2) if he did not die on the Cross, or if,
         having died on the Cross, he did not return to life, they
         will be insufficient alone to provide a miraculous basis for
         Christianity. Let us, then, confine our attention to the
         evidence for the crucifixion, death, burial, and resurrection
         of Christ. This is contained in the gospel narratives.
         They differ one from another in some particulars, but
         the evidence to be gathered from them is sufficient to
         support the following statements :
              Christ and two thieves were crucified ; the bodies
         were not left on the crosses the full time because it was the
         eve of the Passover ; the soldiers who came to take the
         bodies down found that the thieves were still living and

 v.n               THE RESURRECTION                          119
 accelerated their death by breaking their legs ; they were 1865,
 of opinion that Christ was already dead and did not break Aet. 2'
 his legs ; one of the soldiers, however, wounded him with
 a spear, and there came out blood and water ; Joseph of
 Arimathea, a rich man and a friend, came to Pilate and
 begged the body of Jesus ; Pilate marvelled if he were
 already dead, but, having resolved his doubts by asking
 the centurion, gave the body to Joseph ; Joseph took it
 down, laid it in a rock-hewn tomb belonging to himself,
 and rolled a stone to the mouth of the tomb ; the chief
 priests and Pharisees, with the permission of Pilate, sealed
 the stone and set a watch ; about thirty-six hours later
 the tomb was found to be empty and Christ was seen
 alive.
      There is no statement that the body was examined to
 ascertain whether death had actually occurred ; it is not
always easy to determine whether a person supposed to
be dead really is so ; people have been thought to be dead
and have been actually buried, even under the supervision
of expert medical men, and yet they have been not dead
but in a swoon ; the soldiers and the centurion may have
been mistaken. There is evidence that the disciples and
also Joseph of Arimathea, when he begged the body, were
of the same opinion as the soldiers and the centurion—
they all believed Christ to be dead ; but this is not
evidence that he was dead. There is no evidence as to
when Christ left the tomb or as to any one having seen
him leaving it.
      Butler came to the conclusion that Christ did not die
upon the cross, but that he swooned and recovered con
sciousness after his body had passed into the keeping of
Joseph of Arimathea. " It is not probable that a man
officially executed should escape death, but that a dead
man should escape from it is more improbable still" {The
Fair Haven, chapter viii., rewritten from the pamphlet).
The pamphlet concludes :
     It will be seen in the above pages that I have rejected all
idea of fraud on the part of the first founders of Christianity.
Joseph and Nicodemus probably knew the truth, but they were
placed in a very difficult position : they had no intention of

        120               EREWHON REVISITED                            y„,
  1865 deceiving in the first instance ; and could hardly help continuing
Aet. 29 to deceive if they had done what I suppose they did. I need not
        say with what satisfaction I retain my belief in the perfect
        sincerity of those who lived and' died for the religion which they
        founded. It has been too common to suppose that there is no
        alternative between regarding the Apostles as almost superhuman
        beings or as consummate villains. To me it appears that if they
        be taken simply as honest but uneducated men, subjected to a
        very unusual course of exciting incidents in an enthusiastic age
        and country, we shall find that no fraud should be imputed to
        them, and that nothing less than the foundation of Christianity
        could well have come about. The Apostles are generally supposed
        to have been sceptical beyond all conceivable scepticism ; their
        hearts were so steeled against belief that they would not be con
        vinced by evidence more powerful, if possible, than that of their
        own senses ; but if I have realised to myself rightly the effect
        which a well-proved miracle would have upon such men as the
        Apostles in such times as those they lived in, I think I am
        justified in saying that the single supposed miracle of the Resur
        rection is sufficient to account for all that followed.
             This idea of what might follow from belief in one
        single supposed miracle was never hereafter entirely
        absent from Butler's mind ; it slumbered while he occupied
        himself with other things, but at the end of his life it
        woke up and reappeared in great vigour as the chief
        motive of his last book, Erewhon Revisited, published
        only a few months before his death.
             Some of my readers, who are not interested in what
        goes on in clerical circles, may think that all this about
        the Resurrection is flogging a dead horse ; they may say
        that few now seriously accept literally any of the miraculous
        element in the teaching of the Church, and that many
        clergymen even, whatever they may say in the pulpit,
        admit freely in private conversation that they do not
        believe in the miracles. It is true that we are not now
        where we were when the question was agitating Butler
        and exercising such a powerful influence upon his career ;
        nevertheless the Resurrection cannot yet be included in
        any category of dead horses.
             In 1911 a book was published entitled Miracles in
        the New Testament, by the Rev. J. M. Thompson, Fellow
        and Dean of Divinity, St. Mary Magdalen College,

v.n           THE CHRISTIAN MIRACLES                           121
Oxford (London: Edward Arnold). In July 191 1 the 1865
Bishop of Winchester wrote Mr. Thompson a letter Aet. 29
which was reproduced in The Church Times of 15th
September 191 1; the following extracts from it will
show the line taken by the author of the book, and also
the view taken by the bishop.
     But you deal with two matters which are part of the Creed
of the Church, as that has been, within all our knowledge of it,
believed. The Church which witnesses to the great and saving
truth of the Incarnation of the Son of God, in which you are
yourself a devout believer, has always believed as part of that
truth that He was " born of the Virgin Mary," and that He was
raised, and "rose from the dead the third day " in the body which
had suffered death upon the Cross.
      You have taken upon yourself, after very few years' inquiry,
to teach in popular and lucid form, and with great explicitness,
that these parts of the Creed are not essential to it, and to do so
in such a way as to suggest that they are indeed false, and harmful
to truth and faith. . . .
      But these things have a wider than personal bearing. I should
 fail in my duty if I did not declare that in my judgment your
 teachings are (unless subjectively for individuals) incompatible
 with the faith of the Church, and if I did not plainly say that
 they ought not to be issued by one who holds, as you do, a
 responsible pastoral position under licence from Church authority.
       Here the bishop states the regulations by which deans
 of Magdalen give religious instruction to the under
 graduates under a licence granted by the Bishop of
 Winchester.
      The requirement is, I think, plainly intended to obtain from
 the responsible trustee of Church authority a certificate to the
 College that the person in question is, in his official judgment,
qualified to discharge, on behalf of the Church, the duties of the
office.
      That certificate is what I am now constrained to withdraw.
       Perhaps the full significance of some of the bishop's
 phrases, e.g. " a wider than personal bearing," " unless
 subjectively for individuals," and " in his official judg
 ment " may have escaped me, but I do not think I am
 wrong in understanding the letter to mean that, with
 regard to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ,

         122                    APOLOGIA                          VIII
  1865 the Church, in 191 1, was still requiring its officers to
Aet. 29 teach that which Butler had found himself unable to
        accept.
             The story of Christ's resurrection in the body in which
        he had suffered death upon the cross had not been
        presented to Butler as in any sense allegorical ; nor as a
        re-statement of a pagan myth — a new version of the
        disappearance followed by the reappearance of the god, as
        sunset is followed by sunrise and winter by summer ;
        those were not the days of the study of comparative
        religion.    The story was offered to him as a sober
        statement of an event that had actually occurred ; more
        over, being a miracle, the laws of nature, which control
        the motions of the sun and the seasons, had had nothing
        to do with it ; they had been suspended in order that the
        event might occur. It was not possible for Butler to say
        he believed in this while making a mental reservation that
        he understood the words in some other sense, as that
        Christ died physically on the cross and rose again
        spiritually in our hearts. He would not have thought it
        playing fair, even if the idea had been presented to him.
        We shall see when we come to his letters on " A Clergy
        man's Doubts" in The Examiner that by that time (1879)
        he had learnt the wisdom of the phrase " surtout point de
        zele," and was able to contemplate the possibility of a
        thing being false for a man in his private capacity and
        true for him in his official capacity ; so that a case may be
        made out for saying one thing and believing another—for
        the moral rectitude of lying. But his pamphlet on the
        Evidence for the Resurrection was Butler's apologia for
        declining to become a clergyman; he was not, in 1865,
        looking at the matter from an outsider's point of view ;
        and there is a difference between writing letters signed
        " One who thinks he knows a thing or two about Ethics "
 ~-     and entering a profession which turns a man's life into a
        continuous deception, more especially when the man is a
        clergyman, a teacher of morality, whose life should be an
        example of straightforwardness for the guidance of others.
        The difference is that between the advocate and the
   ' ' criminal.

vn1                  CHARLES DARWIN                               123
     Butler sent a copy of his pamphlet to Charles Darwin 1865
                                                                       Aet. 29
and the following correspondence took place :
                     Charles Darwin to Butler.
                                             Down, Bromley, Kent.
                                                    September 30.
    My dear S1r — I am much obliged to you for so kindly
sending me your Evidence^ etc. We have read it with much
interest. It seems to me written with much force, vigour,
and clearness : and the main argument is to me quite new. I
particularly agree with all you say in your preface.
    I do not know whether you intend to return to New Zealand,
and if you are inclined to write. I should much like to know
what your future plans are.
    My health has been so bad during the last five months that I
have been confined to my bedroom. Had it been otherwise, I
would have asked you if you could spare the time to have paid us
a visit ; but this at present is impossible, and I fear will be so for
some time.
     With my best thanks for your present, I remain,
                                 My dear Sir,
                                        Yours very faithfully,
                                               Charles Darw1n.
                     Butler to Charles Darwin.
                                              15 Cl1fford's Inn, E.C.
                                                    Oct. 1, 1865.
     Dear S1r—I knew you were ill, and I never meant to give
 you the fatigue of writing to me. Please do not trouble yourself
 to do so again. As you kindly ask my plans I may say that,
 though I very probably may return to New Zealand in three or
 four years, I have no intention of doing so before that time. My
 study is art, and anything else I may indulge in is only by-play ;
 it may cause you some little wonder that at my age I should have
 started as an art student, and I may perhaps be permitted to
 explain that this was always my wish for years, that I had begun
 six years ago, as soon as ever I found that I could not con
 scientiously take orders ; my father so strongly disapproved of the
 idea that I gave it up and went out to New Zealand, stayed there
 for five years, worked like a common servant, though on a run of
 my own, and sold out little more than a year ago, thinking that
 prices were going to fall—which they have since done. Being
 then rather at a loss what to do, and my capital being all locked

         124             THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES                           vm
  1865 up, I took the opportunity to return to my old plan, and have been
Aet. 29 studying for the last 12 months unremittingly. I hope that in
        three or four years more I shall be able to go very well by myself,
        and then I may go back to N.Z. or no as circumstances shall
        seem to render advisable.
             I must apologise for so much detail, but hardly knew how to
        explain myself without it.
             I always delighted in your Origin of Species as soon as I saw
        it out in N.Z.—not as knowing anything whatsoever of natural
        history, but it enters into so many deeply interesting questions, or
        rather it suggests so many, that it thoroughly fascinated me. I
        therefore feel all the greater pleasure that my pamphlet should
        please you, however full of errors it may be.
             The first dialogue on the Origin which I wrote in The Press
        called forth a contemptuous rejoinder from (I believe) the Bishop
        of Wellington—(please do not mention the name, though I think
        that at this distance of space and time I might mention it to
        yourself)—I answered it with the enclosed, which may amuse you.
        I assumed another character because my dialogue was, in my
        hearing, very severely criticised by two or three whose opinion I
        thought worth having, and I deferred to their judgement in my
        next. I do not think I should do so now. I fear you will be
        shocked at an appeal to the periodicals mentioned in my letter,
        but they form a very staple article of bush diet, and we used to
        get a good deal of superficial knowledge out of them. I feared
        to go in too heavy on the side of the Origin because I thought
        that, having said my say as well as I could, I had better now take
        a less impassioned tone : but I was really exceedingly angry.
             Please do not trouble yourself to answer this, and believe me,
                                               Yours most sincerely,
                                                              S. Butler.
              Butler did not keep a copy of the foregoing letter,
        and I should never have known of it but for the kindness
        of Sir Francis Darwin, who found it among his father's
        papers and lent it to me in 19 10. But he kept Darwin's
        reply, and made two notes on it. If he had kept a copy
        of his letter he need not have made the note at the head
        of the reply, for it would have shown that Darwin's letter
        ought to be dated 6th October 1865. This is Darwin's
        reply with Butler's two notes :
             [I cannot make out whether the following letter should be
        dated 1863 or 1864. It seems to have been written after I had
        left N.Z., in which case the date should be 1864, but it refers to

v1n            "DIALOGUE ON SPECIES"                           125
a controversy that was going on in The Press newspaper of 1865
Christchurch, N.Z., between myself and Bishop Abraham, then Aet. z9
Bishop of Wellington, N.Z. On the whole I should think the
date ought to be October 6th 1864.—October 19th 1901. S. B.]
                    Charles Darwin to Butler.
                                       Down, Bromley, Kent, S.E.
                                                 Oct. 6.           \
     My dear S1r—I thank you sincerely for your kind and
frank letter which has interested me greatly. What a singular
and varied career you have already run. Did you keep any
journal or notes in New Zealand ? For it strikes me that with
your rare powers of writing you might make a very interesting
work descriptive of a colonist's life in New Zealand.
     I return your printed letter, which you might like to keep.
It has amused me, especially the part in which you criticise your
self. To appreciate the latter part fully I ought to have read the
Bishop's letter, which seems to have been very rich.
     You tell me not to answer your note, but I could not resist
the wish to thank you for your letter.
     With every good wish, believe me, My dear Sir, Yours
sincerely,                                          Ch. Darw1n.
     [I forget what my "printed letter" was about, and have no
copy ; but I remember answering an attack (in The Press, New
Zealand) on me by Bishop Abraham (of Wellington) as though
 I were someone else, and, to keep up the deception, attacking
myself also. But it was all very young and silly together.
— 1901. S. B.]
      This refers to Butler's " Dialogue on Species " men
tioned in the preceding chapter as having appeared in The
 Press in 1 862. In his letter of 1st October 1865 Butler says,
 " I answered it with the enclosed, which may amuse you " ;
 Darwin in his reply says, " I return your printed letter " ;
 and Butler in his note thereon says, " I forget what my
 ' printed letter ' was about, and have no copy." There can
 be no doubt that Butler sent Darwin a cutting from The
 Press containing his letter.signed " A. M.,"of 2 1st February
  1863.     This letter appears among the correspondence
 following the Dialogue in the 1 9 14 edition of A First Tear.
 The periodicals mentioned by Butler, out of which the
 colonists got a good deal of superficial information, were

         126                   CRABB ROBINSON                            vm
  1865 The Saturday Review, The Cornhill Magazine, Once a
Aet. 29 fyee^ and Macmillaris Magazine.
              In spite of what Butler says in his account of the
        relations between himself and Pauli, and in his letter to
        Dr. Haast about his dislike of society, he did occasionally
        go to other people's houses ; though his friends were not
        Pauli's friends.
             I used often to go on Sunday evenings to the house of my
        uncle Philip Worsley in Taviton Street when I first returned
        from New Zealand, and Crabb Robinson went there, too, every
        third Sunday for a dozen years and more, till he was 90 or over.
        I often used to meet him there and he talked incessantly, telling
        the same old stories and swaggering as rich, stupid, vain old men
        do. I was asked to one of his breakfasts once, but I was not
        a success. I forget who was there except my cousin Richard
        Worsley, George Scharf, J. Pattisson, and Street, the architect.
        When the old man died, he left my uncle a copy of Rogers's
        Italy ; and I fancy that my uncle and aunt, considering how many
       years they had put up with his boredom, thought it was rather
       shabby of him.
                                Butler to Dr. Haast.
             14 Nov. 1865—I am painting very steadily, and I believe
        making as much progress as the most sanguine could expect. I
        mean beginning chiefly with portraits, but feeling my way on to
        historical subjects as soon as I find the ground pretty firm beneath
        my feet. No man can work more sedulously than I do, and I
        cannot but hope that a good measure of success will reward me if
        I have life and health for some few years longer. I will say this
        much, that if my hopes are founded on a good basis, and I do
        ultimately succeed, I shall be the very first painter that ever
       owned a sheep-run in the Upper Rangitata district.
                                Butler to Dr. Haast.
            25 "July 1866—I had already discovered that the photograph
       I sent you was not Darwin, and I can tell you how. About 3
       months after I sent you that photo, which was sold me for Darwin
       and which I firmly believed was Darwin, Marshman asked me to
       an evening at his house, and I went. I was to meet a Mr. Wallis
        [sic, meaning Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace] — the gentleman
        mentioned by Darwin in his preface as having arrived at con
        clusions very similar to his own. Lo and behold ! who should

m1                   SPIRITUAL SEANCE                            127
 this Mr. Wallis be but the very gentleman whose photograph I 1867
 had sent you ! I had meant writing to tell you, but put it off. I Aet. 32
 tried several times to get a photo of the true Darwin as soon as
 I found how I had been deceived—but I never succeeded. I am
 very glad, however, that you have got one now ; you will readily
 understand that it never entered into my head to doubt that the
 photo I sent you was genuine when I saw Darwin written on the
 back ; neither should I have been undeceived until I got your
 letter unless I had accidentally met Wallis. However, all's well
 that ends well.
      Marshman was Agent-General for New Zealand and
this meeting is referred to post, p. 316. It is mentioned
 in Wallace's book My Life (1905). This is Butler's
 note about it—made at the time and copied into his
diary with the spelling of Wallace's name corrected.
      1865 Dee. 8—Spiritual seance at Marshman's. Transparent
 humbug. A. R. Wallace and Dr. Carpenter both there : the
 former swallowing everything, the latter contemptuous as well he
 might be.
                        Butler to his Father.
      17 Dec. 1867—I wish that next time you are in London you
 would call at Heatherley's and ask old Heatherley what he thinks
 of me. He never flatters, and will, I am sure, say very little and
 commit himself to nothing, but I think he will say enough to satisfy
 you that he sees no reason why I should not arrive at excellence ;
 he looks very absurd and at first I thought him very affected in his
 manner and dress—his get-up being dishevelled and what he
 thinks "artistic "—but the more I see of him the better I like him.
 It is a funny place, too, and would amuse you.
      This is the first mention I have found in the papers of
 Heatherley who kept the School of Art at 79 Newman
 Street, where many artists studied. He died in 19 14
 aged 89. Butler also studied at South Kensington as well
as at Cary's, but after he began to go to Heatherley's he
did not go anywhere else. It is unlikely that Canon
Butler ever called at 79 Newman Street, but he and his
son seem to have been on good terms just at this time,
for ten days later Butler was staying at Langar, and wrote
to Dr. Haast :

        128                     THOMAS CASS                              vm
                               Butler to Dr. Haast.
  1867      Now, my dear Doctor, I will give you my bond to paint your
Aet. 32 portrait for you, if you will sit to me, if you will send my father
        another cargo of plants. I can do it perfectly well, and you are
        safe to be in London ere so very long. Also I will influence my
        father to leave you a very large iegacy in his will (Proh ! Pudor !),
        nay I will do anything you may command (in tolerable reason) if
        you will only send the old boy some more plants. If you will
        pay anyone (say) ^1o to make a collection—any shepherd you
        may know of—I would gladly reimburse you, giving you a
        cheque on my agent.
            I say—you remember old Darby at my place, don't you ?
        I'm afraid he did burn that house down ? What do you think ?
        I should so like to have a gossip with you. I was telling them at
        the school I go to but the other day about your man and his
        [mate] saying "bloody" 72 times in 10 minutes ; only I did not
        mention names.
             Through the partition in the hut they could hear the
        shepherds talking, and made a bet as to how often the
        word in question would be used.
             He sent to William Sefton Moorhouse, in New
        Zealand, a study of a woman's head as a sample of his
        work. Dr. Haast was to see this, I suppose, to encourage
        him, next time he came to England, to let Butler try and
        turn out something resembling the portrait of the sculptor
        Andrea Ordini, by Lorenzo Lotto, at Hampton Court, of
        which he wrote to Dr. Haast : " It is a very fine picture
        and really exceedingly like you."
             Mr. O. T. J. Alpers, writing from New Zealand, nth
        April 1903, told me that at Christchurch there is a
        portrait of Thomas Cass, painted by Butler in 1868, and
        presented by the sitter to the Art Gallery. Dr. Haast
        named a river, which joins Lake Tekapo, the Cass " in
        honour of the chief Surveyor of the Province " (Geology
        of Canterbury and fVestlana, pp. 25-6).                Mr. Alpers
        continues :
            Cass, apparently, was on a visit to London in '68, acting as
        Emigration Agent for the Province.            He probably amused
        Butler. He was an extraordinary crank, a survival in the 19th
        century of a crank common enough in the 17 th. He believed the

vn1               WORKING TOO HARD                             129
earth to be flat and delivered very diverting lectures to prove it : 1868
and yet he was, of all callings, a surveyor ! He came out as Aet. 32
Surveyor to the Canterbury Association. A man who refused to
believe the evidence of his own theodolite must have been a
queer fish.
     Cass told Butler that in the early days of the colony
the Maoris burnt a town in the North Island called
Russell. During a truce a Maori said to him that he
would shoot no more soldiers. Cass said he was glad to
hear it, but asked, " Why ? " The Maori replied that it did
not pay : the powder cost him thirteen shillings a pound,
 and if he did shoot a soldier the Queen could get another
for a shilling. " Now," he continued, " it takes three
years and a great deal of money to make a surveyor like
 you ; and, considering the price of powder, you are the
 kind of person whom I intend to shoot in future."
     During these years Butler was working seven hours a
day at painting, and in addition was writing and practising
the piano. He painted at home as well as at Heatherley's
and, by way of a cheap model, hung up a looking-glass
near the window of his painting-room and made many
studies of his own head. He gave some of them away
and destroyed and painted over others, but after his death
we found a number in his rooms—some of the earlier ones
very curious. All this incessant using of his eyes, and
much of his work was done close to white paper, brought
on congestion for which he consulted Bowman in 1868
and again in 1869. In after life he was never quite free
from it, though it was hardly more than an inconvenience.
When out sketching or walking in Italy or Switzerland,
if we came to a fountain he used to take off his hat and
hold his forehead and eyes under the cold running water.
     In February 1869, Cator and Campbell from New
Zealand called upon him. It was on some such occasion
as this that, having nothing in Clifford's Inn that he
could offer his guests, he went to the nearest cook-shop
in Fetter Lane and returned carrying through the street a
dish of hot roast pork and greens. And they probably
drank tea ; as it was an occasion they may have drunk
whisky, but during these years the teapot was always on
    vol. 1                                                 K.

       130            A FIVE MONTHS' TOUR                         v.u
1869 the hob and he seldom drank anything else. He had no
   34 other way of entertaining his friends ; he never belonged
      to any club except the Hogarth and the Century, and he
      had dropped them both by about 1880.
           In November 1869 Butler went abroad, travelling via
      Antwerp, Brussels, Luxemburg, Basel, Fluelen, Airolo,
      Giornico, Bellinzona, Como, Villa d'Este, Milan, Bergamo,
      Brescia, Desenzano, Genoa, and San Remo to Mentone,
      where he arrived about the middle of December. He
      stayed there painting till March, but did not like the
      country so well as North Italy : he found too many
      olives and not enough grass. He went from Mentone to
      Sospello, Giandola, Tenda, on foot : thence by diligence
      to Cuneo, Turin, Parma, Modena, Florence, Bologna,
      Venice, Turin, Macon, Paris, and returned home,
      March 31, 1870.
           He stayed so long because of the continued growth
      of a tumour at the back of his neck, and because of the
      increase of loud noises in his head when on the point of
      going to sleep, as though a violent discharge were being
      made suddenly outside. The first few times the noise
      came, he got out of bed and went into his sitting-room to
      investigate, thinking that the crash had taken place there.
      Both these symptoms began in 1866 and had so increased
      that Dudgeon strongly urged four or five months' change.
          I showed the tumour to Sir James Paget who said it would
      be ripe for operating on in five years. Thank heaven it is now
      (December, 1899) hardly noticeable and the noises in my head
      have long subsided, often disappearing entirely for months
      together. Both the tumour and the noises are my storm-signals.
      When they show signs of returning I know it to be time for me
      to slacken off work. Neither symptoms became materially better
      until the death of my father, and some time afterwards.
           This is the first reference to Dr. Robert Ellis Dudgeon,
      the eminent homoeopathist, translator into English of the
      works of Hahnemann, editor for 40 years of The British
      Journal of Homoeopathy, and inventor of the pocket
      sphygmograph which bears his name.                He died in
      October 1904, aged 84. I do not know when they first
      met—probably it was when Butler was doing parish work

v1n             DR. R. E. DUDGEON                   131
in London before he went to New Zealand ; and, if so, it 1870
was no doubt because of Dudgeon that he contemplated AeL 34
being a homoeopathic doctor, and hoped that Doctor, his
horse in New Zealand, was a homoeopathist. He con
tinued to consult Dudgeon to the end of his life : they
were close friends and had a very high opinion of one
another.

                                 CHAPTER IX
                                      1870-1871
                                  STUDYING ART
  1870 On his way back from his prolonged tour Butler stayed
Aet. 34 in Venice, where he met a Russian lady with whom he
        spent most of his time there.             She was, no doubt,
        impressed by his versatility, and charmed, as every one
        always was, by his conversation and original views on
        everything that interested him. We may be sure he
        told her all about himself, what he had done, and what
        he was intending to do. As to the former, there was not
        much to be told ; for he had produced, in painting,
        nothing but a few sketches and studies ; and, in literature,
        only a few ephemeral articles, a collection of youthful
        letters, and a pamphlet on the Resurrection ; moreover
        to none of his work had any one paid the slightest
        attention. This is his note about her :
                        The Russ1an Lady and Myself
            Many years ago (the spring of 1870) I met an elderly Russian
        lady at the Hotel la Luna. I think I saw she was a Baroness
        and her name was Von Bttlow. She was plain, quiet, and not,
        at first sight, attractive ; but she took a fancy to me, and we
        went about together more than once. When I was going away
        she said to me :
            "Et maintenant, Monsieur, vous allez creer," meaning that
        I had been looking long enough at other people's work and
        should now do something of my own.
            This sank into me and pained me ; for I knew I had done
        nothing as yet, nor had I any definite notion of what I wanted
        to do. All was vague aspiration, admiration, and despair ; nor
                                          13a

M
                       I ori
               i
          be had pre
                             i
    :.
                  I  •
    his note about he:
The        Lady and

V*.. Jd£MJW=-
        bmfry *- uJ^Ajr i7*t. J


 1x                  SIR F. N. BROOME                           133
 did I yet know, though I was fully 34 years old, that the study 1870
 of other men's works—except by the way—is the surest manner Aet. 34
 of killing the power to do things for oneself.
     "Vous allez creer." Yes, but how to create? and what?
 I had not yet, for all my education, got to know that doing is
 the sole parent of doing, and creating a little the only way of
 learning how to create more ; still, I went home resolved to do
 at any rate something in literature, if not in painting. So I
 began tinkering up the old magazine articles I had written in New
 Zealand, and they strung themselves together into Erewhon.
     It was a long time before I saw my way to a second effort.
 I thought I was quite used up and done for ; but by and by the
 idea of doing The Fair Haven occurred to me, and I did it.
 Ever since then I have had no more difficulty in creating ; my
 trouble is to find time enough to create what I want to create,
 and not to ruin myself in publishing it when I have created it.
 I have often wished I could thank the Baroness (if she was a
 Baroness) Von Bolow (if her name was Von Bttlow). Anyhow
 she was a Russian.
     But Broome gave me the final shove into Erewhon.
     Broome was Sir Frederick Napier Broome, who, as I
 have said above, had a run in New Zealand. He was in
England about this time, before being appointed Governor
of Western Australia, and called on Butler. They talked
over old times together, Butler's New Zealand articles
were mentioned, and Broome incidentally suggested their
being rewritten. The idea was attractive ; it might not
be exactly creating, but at least it would be doing
something. So Butler set to work on Sundays and in
the evenings. He took for a starting-point the letter
about " Darwin among the Machines," which he had
rewritten as "The Mechanical Creation," and again
rewrote it as "The Book of the Machines." He also
rewrote " The World of the Unborn " from an article
that had originally appeared in The Reasoner or some
other paper, but he did not keep a copy ; and turned
the substance of two articles, written about 1865, into
" The Musical Banks " and " An Erewhonian Trial."
These passages, with a few sentences which he took from
memory out of A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement,
were all of Erewhon that was written before 1870, and
in this way the book began to grow.

        134                 HEATHERLEY'S                          IX
  1870       All the time he was writing Erewhon he considered
Aet- 34 it only as parergon, subsidiary to the real business of his
        life which was painting. He made many friends among
        the art students at Heatherley's. Mr. (afterwards Sir)
        Johnston Forbes-Robertson, the actor, was one, but he
        was of a younger generation ; so were Henry Marriott
        Paget, Thomas Cooper Gotch, and Henry Scott Tuke,
        R.A., who are referred to later in this Memoir.
             One of his principal friends was Thomas William
        Gale Butler, of whom he often spoke as being, perhaps,
        the most brilliant man he ever knew. Of course there
        was something wrong with him ; he began to show signs
        of insanity on leaving England for New Zealand, where
        he became a dangerous lunatic and shot a policeman near
        the Rakaia river. The policeman's belt saved his life,
        and T. W. G. Butler returned home partially restored ;
        but soon it was necessary to shut him up again, and he
        died in the asylum of some workhouse. He and Butler
        were not related though they used to fancy they could
        detect a family resemblance.
             Buder always talked in the most open way of whatever
         was in his mind; and, when writing and thinking about
         the evidence for the Resurrection, talked at Heatherley's
         of the Christian religion in a manner that would have
         confirmed Theobald in his view of the deteriorating
         influence of the atmosphere of Bohemia. He was once
         understood to say that the greater number of those who
         profess and call themselves Christians are really wor
         shippers of Mrs. Grundy, whose name can often be
         substituted for that of the Founder of Christianity, and
         that no progress will be made until this is generally
         recognised.
              " The fact is," he said, " Mrs. Grundy's carriage
         stops the way."
             A remark of this kind would be repeated, sometimes
         inaccurately, sometimes, perhaps, the other name would
         be openly substituted for that of Mrs. Grundy ; nor was
         it always remembered with which Butler the remark had
         originated. T. W. G. Butler was once taxed with having
         spoken disrespectfully of the three Persons of the Trinity.

 IX                 T. W. G. BUTLER                    135
 He had not even been present when the words were 1870
 spoken, but he gravely considered the accusation and Aet. 34
 replied :
     " No.    That wasn't me.           There must be some
 mistake. I cannot have said that because I don't know
any of them."
     " Which of us," Butler used to say, " which of us,
I wonder, ought to be in the workhouse asylum ? "
     Neither Butler nor his namesake at this time had ever
heard the famous lines :
               Qui giace 1' Aretin, poeta tosco,
               Di tutti disse mal, fuorehe di Cristo,
               Scusandosi col dir : Non lo conosco.
     I am sure about Butler's not having heard of these
lines, because I remember his coming upon them for the
first time when we were at Pisa many years afterwards ;
and I do not think it possible that T. W. G. Butler had
heard of them, because when his fellow -students at
Heatherley's used to revile him for never reading any
poetry he justified himself thus :
     " 1 don't know what you mean by saying I never
read any poetry. I take in The Daily Telegraph and in
the spring I study the Royal Academy Catalogue ; what
more do you want ? Surely that is as much poetical
pabulum as a healthy man can digest ! "
     Then there was Gaetano who, as a boy, had come to
London with his younger brother from their native village
in the Basilicata in South Italy. Gaetano carried a harp,
which I have seen ; it is about the size of the one which
Tannhauser brings to the Tournament of Song at Covent
Garden. They walked most of the way and paid for
their food and lodging by making music—Gaetano on
his harp and Luigi on the violin. In London they earned
money by sitting as models ; afterwards Luigi gave violin
lessons and Gaetano became a painter.
     Butler went to see Gaetano one day in the spring, and
found him with a picture finished and ready for the
Academy—all but the frame, and there was no money to
pay for that ; so the picture could not be sent in, and

        136                     GAETANO                          IX
  1870 must, if possible, be sold privately. Butler offered to
Aet. 34 jencj tne monev for the frame, but Gaetano was too proud
        to take it. Butler saw he had made a mistake, but was
        not going to acquiesce in defeat. In a day or two he
        called again, and said that a few months ago he had lent
        some money to a friend, never expecting to see it again,
        and to his surprise the friend had just repaid him ; as he
        had had no expectation of this he had arranged to do
        without it, and therefore did not really want it. It was
        more than a frame would cost, and he begged Gaetano to
        take part of it. He told his story with such apparent
        conviction, overruling every objection with such energy—
        the picture was admirable and would certainly be hung ;
        to see it on the walls of the Academy would be worth
        more to him than the value of the frame ; there could
        be no doubt it would sell, and he could be repaid out of
        the purchase money ; and •so on—that poor Gaetano, if
        only to stop the torrent of eloquence, was forced into
        accepting the loan, which of course was never repaid.
             Gaetano assured me, in 19 10, that he had believed
        this story at the time ; but that afterwards, when he came
        to know Butler better, he realised that it was invented in
        order to induce him to take the money.
             And there was Miss Ross, whose brother was an
        engineer making a railway somewhere in Central America
        in sole command of about 500 black men, only half-
        civilised. One of the men announced that he was going
        to marry the cook, who was one of the few women in the
        camp. Ross thought that it would tend to preserve
        decency and order if the union were not allowed to take
        place without a ceremony of some kind ; and he, of course,
        would have to perform it, as there was no parson. He
        had but one book, which happened to be Tristram Shandy.
        The people, however, only spoke Spanish, so that did not
        much matter ; at any rate he determined to marry them
        out of it. A Sunday was fixed for the wedding, and
        proclaimed a high holiday. Ross put an old, but clean,
        night-shirt over all his clothes, and, looking as solemn as
        he could, read to the assembled people, and to the bride
        and bridegroom in particular, a chapter of Tristram

1x                      LIONEL SMYTHE                              137
Shandy ; after which he declared them, and they were 1870
considered to be, duly married. I have often wondered et. 34
which chapter he read.
     Lionel Smythe (afterwards R.A.) was another friend
Butler made at Heatherley's.               He and his two half-
brothers, the well-known painters, W. L. Wyllie and
Charles Wyllie, had lived for years at Wimereux. In
1869 Smythe and W. L. Wyllie distinguished themselves
by saving life at sea. The Illustrated London News (4th
December 1869) apropos of a picture, "A Thick Night
off the Goodwins," by Lionel Smythe, then on view at
the Dudley Gallery, gave this account of one of their
exploits taken from The Times :
    While the two young artists were studying the sea on the
French coast near Boulogne, an English coaster was stranded in
heavy weather with her boats stove in or washed adrift. The
fishermen were unwilling to venture their lives to bring off the
crew. The two English painters, after trying their best to get
four natives to complete the crew of one of the six-oared fishing-
boats, swam off together with lines round them to the stranded
vessel. Wading the surf-washed sands, diving under the heavy
surf, and swimming the smoother water, they succeeded, at the
peril of their lives, in reaching the ship ; and the lines they carried
were the means of establishing a communication with the shore
and of saving the crew. It is this same vessel which is repre
sented in Wyllie's " Wreck of the Wheatsheaf" also in the
Dudley Gallery ; but there is nothing in picture or catalogue to
indicate the share which the painter had in the rescue of the
Wheat1heaf's crew.
     Lionel Smythe told me that Butler used to call the
time at Heatherley's ; that is, he used to announce when
the model was to rest. In other respects, he said, Butler
was usually rather silent in the school ; but when he did
speak what he said was always worth hearing, though, on
the whole, Smythe was inclined to be rather afraid of him,
for which, I am sure, there was no reason. Butler pre
served in his notes this story of
                            L1onel Smythe
    A man heard a certain painter showing a dealer his pictures :

         138                 THOMAS BALLARD                                «
  1870       "Ah," he said, "you'd better take that picture while you can
Aet. 34 get it—you may have it for a hundred pounds now. It will be
         two hundred next year. I'll do a little more to the background
        if you like ; but, if I do, it will be guineas," and so forth.
            The same man saw Lionel Smythe show a picture he had
        painted on commission to the dealer who had ordered it. Smythe
        looked gloomily on the picture for a moment, and then said :
            "Isn't it a beast ? " and the dealer knocked him off £100 on
        the spot.
            I know Smythe very well, admire his work greatly, and think
       extremely highly of him in every way. The story told above is
       just like him.
             Another artist friend of whom Butler had a very high
       opinion was Ballard. Mr. H. R. Robertson, who knew
       them both, has kindly written for me this account of
                                 Thomas Ballard
            Ballard was one of the best men I ever knew, certainly the
        most charitable : very poor, but always ready to share his last
        shilling with any artist or model who was hard up.
            Sir James D. Linton once said of him that if he were asked in
        the street for a shirt, he would say, " Wait a minute," would retire
        to the nearest suitable place and come out of it adjusting his dress,
        and while buttoning his coat up to the chin would hand over his
        shirt to the necessitous one.
            He was very tall and thin, with aquiline features, clear grey
        eyes, and straggling beard and moustache — some front teeth
        missing.
            He was an able painter, but quite without ambition. I think
       he only sent one picture to the R.A. He called it " Spain." It
        consisted of two separately painted studies of models posed at
        Heatherley's school and harmonized into one picture by a suitable
       background. It was well hung in the principal room and sold at
       once. Fred Barnard made an amusing caricature on the occasion :
       the old Ballard disappearing in the sky with slouched hat, ancient
       Inverness cape, and cracked boots, and the new Ballard coming
       forward with a bow, dressed in the height of the fashion, with
       shiny hat, patent-leather boots, etc.
            He chiefly worked for the theatres, painting groups of figures
        on drop scenes, etc. ; but he priced his work so modestly that it
        was almost a starvation wage. I remember once when he did a
        set of panels of Cupids on a blue ground going all round the
        theatre (Drury Lane or Covent Garden) he contracted to do

1x                    CHARLES GOGIN                           139
them at such a low price that when he had paid for the cobalt 1870
used there was nothing left.                                       Aet. 34
    He was extraordinarily well read — indeed he was always
reading in the streets, and by long practice he steered in and out
among the passengers on the pavement in a most skilful manner.
    He knew more about the old masters than any expert I ever
met.
     Butler would have endorsed all this. I remember
Ballard quite well. I have seen him with a model at
Veglio's restaurant, which used to be in the Euston Road,
not far from his studio. If, after a day's work, he thought
that his model had not had enough to eat lately, he would
bring her with him to supper. Appearances might be
against him — he did not care. He often came to see
Butler, and had apples in his pockets which he munched
as he walked along the streets. He had them sent to him
from Ledbury, his home in Gloucestershire. He always
came when there was an exhibition of Old Masters. And
then when Butler came to my rooms in the evening he
would generally say something of this kind :
     " You know that Rembrandt at the Old Masters—that
thing they call a Rembrandt, I mean—in the third room ? "
     And I would reply, " Yes."
     " Well, Ballard has been this afternoon ; says he is
convinced they are right. I don't believe a word of it.
Why it hasn't any of the— "
     Here would follow all the reasons for the attribution
being absurd ; and it would seem to me that there must
have been something like a row between Butler and
Ballard. Next evening Butler would say :
     " I've been to the Old Masters again to see that
Rembrandt, and, do you know, I believe Ballard is quite
right. What I took for— "
     Here would follow all the reasons for changing his
opinion and agreeing with Ballard after all. He nearly
always came round to agreeing with Ballard in the end ;
he always told him so, and they never really quarrelled.
     Another of the Heatherley students was Charles
Gogin, who, in 1896, painted Butler's portrait. Gogin was
one of the very few men who really understood Butler ;

         14o              REGINALD WORSLEY                             1x
  1870 and the friendship between them lasted till Butler's death,
Aet. 34 although it was a little shaken for a moment or so when
        Gogin married Miss Broadbridge, who also had been a
        student at Heatherley's. Butler always spoke of marriage
        as Edward Overton speaks of it in The Way of all Flesh, so
        that at Heatherley's the ladies called him " The Incarnate
        Bachelor " ; but, of course, in real life exceptional cases
        arose, and he was unable to put his theories strictly into
        practice.
             And so with his cousin Reginald Worsley, whose
        marriage interrupted their intercourse ; but the married
        life did not last long, and on its termination the friendship
        between the two cousins was resumed.
             Butler made this note of a conversation between
        Reginald Worsley and his father, Philip Worsley, Butler's
        uncle. The reader will observe how inevitably the son's
        few questions shattered the father's position. Reggie
        Worsley's temperament was uncompromisingly robust, and
        when he made up his mind on a subject it was not easy
        to shake him. He had made up his mind about marriage.
                                   Dr. Parkks
            Dr. Parkes wrote a book on health, and said that physiology
        proved the Bible to be right in all it said about marriage which
        was the natural condition of man.
            My uncle said :
            "What a fine man Parkes must have been ! How I wish I
        had known him ! "
            My cousin Reggie asked, " Is he dead ? "
            "Yes."
            " How old was he ? "
            " Forty."
            "What did he die of?"
            « Decline."
            " Had he any children ? "
            " No."
            Worsley played the viola, and, as this instrument is,
       or used to be, neglected, he was in request at gatherings
       of amateur musicians.
             " And do you go to St. Luke's, Mr. Worsley ? " in
       quired a lady during supper one evening after the quartets.

a                            ROSE                           141
    " No," replied Worsley.                                      1870
    " Then perhaps you go to St. Paul's Cathedral ? " Aet. 34
suggested the lady.
    " I have not been inside St. Paul's for some years,"
replied Worsley.
    " Or there is Westminster Abbey," pursued the lady.
    " There is," agreed Worsley.
    " Well, I can't make out what church you do go to,"
said the lady.
    " No," replied Worsley, " but you are having a pretty
good try."
    Another of the students was George M'Culloch, an
admirable draughtsman, but often in financial difficulties.
Reginald Worsley had lent him money and had not been
repaid.     M'Culioch came again with a picture or a
mezzotint which he wanted to raffle, and Worsley was
to take a ticket.
    "No, M'Culloch," said Worsley, "I shall not take
a ticket. I cannot afford it. And, besides, I am buying
a grand'piano."
    This is the M'Culloch mentioned in the following
note about Rose ; and the Ferguson also mentioned was
a fellow art-student, James Ferguson, who made the
drawing of Butler playing Handel which faces the opening
of this chapter.
                              Rose
    Rose, the model, had the finest torso I ever saw. He was
the model used by Poynter for his well-known picture " Israel in
Egypt " ; all the Jews in that picture are Rose. He was sitting
to the life class at Cary's when George M'Culloch, Ferguson,
and I were working there ; and it was proposed that Rose should
be photographed by me, as I had a camera. M'Culloch and
Ferguson accordingly came to my rooms, and we took the
negative which I now have. A very few weeks later Rose was
drowned while bathing at Southampton. His torso was not only
the finest I ever saw but I never saw anything in the least like
it. All the markings which we see in the antique and accept,
though we never see them in real life, were not only there but
in as full development as I ever saw in the antique ; with the
exception, of course, of the obviously exaggerated Hercules.

         1 42                   MISS SAVAGE                         1x
  1870 The head and lower limbs were not remarkable. I understood
Aet. 34 Rose got this wonderful development of arms and torso through
        turning a sausage machine, from which he seems to have ground
        beauty into his own body. I suppose he ground his sausages to
        the Lord.
              Of all the friends Butler made at Heatherley's, the one
        who entered most deeply into his life, who, with some
        reservations, understood him best, and who influenced him
        most, was Miss Eliza Mary Ann Savage. She was of about
        his own age, daughter of an architect, Humphrey Basker-
        ville Savage, who was the son of another architect,
        James Savage (1779-1852). According to the Dictionary
        of National Biography, James Savage in 18 19 designed the
        new church of St. Luke, Chelsea; he also competed for
        the building of London Bridge and succeeded Henry
        Hakewell as architect to the Society of the Middle
        Temple. Miss Savage, as far as I have been able to
        ascertain, was an only child. From 1862 to 1866 she
        was resident governess at Bishopsbourne, near Canterbury,
        and at other places in the family of the Rev. John Sumner,
        a son of the Archbishop of Canterbury and uncle of
        Butler's friend, Miss Bertha Thomas, who is mentioned
        later in this Memoir, and to whom I am indebted for
        some of the particulars here given. After 1866 Miss
        Savage lived with her father and mother at 22 Beaumont
        Street. During the early part of the years 1866 and
        1867, when the Sumners were in London, she went daily
        to their house as governess, and introduced one of her
        pupils to a drawing-class directed by Miss Johnson, who
        was also a student at Heatherley's, where, I suppose, Miss
        Savage had made her acquaintance.
              Miss Savage had probably no serious intention of
        taking up art as a profession, and I have been told that
        she made little progress with her artistic studies. When
        we come to her letters the reader will agree that her
        sympathies were with literature rather than with painting ;
        and he will also then agree with a remark made by her
        pupil, Miss Sumner, in a note written to give me informa
        tion about Miss Savage : " She was certainly a most
        unusual governess."

,x                HANDEL'S ORATORIOS                         143
     Butler destroyed her first letters to him, I suppose 1871
from a quixotic feeling of delicacy, or perhaps fearing Aet. 3S
they might fall into other hands ; but afterwards he kept
her letters, and she kept all his, which, on her death in
1885, were restored to him. In editing his remains he
preserved those of his letters that threw light on hers to
him or that he thought interesting, and also adnotated
the whole correspondence. Only a part of it is reproduced
here, and when a letter has on it a note by Butler I have
preserved his note with the date and his initials in square
brackets. The first of his letters to her is undated ; it
was written early in 1871 and the note that precedes it
thirty years later.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
    [Mrs. Briggs was then editing The Drawing Room Gazette,
of which I am happy to see there are no copies in the British
Museum, and Miss Savage persuaded me into writing a few
articles for it.— 1901. S. B.]
    Dear M1ss Savage—I did not understand that I was to
have tickets for Jephtha, and bought my own yesterday. I
certainly was not promised them ; however, if Mrs. Briggs likes
to strike the bargain with me, I'm ready enough ; I'll write her
half a column of criticism for every concert that I go to for
which she gives me a ticket ; but I only want Handel's Oratorios
—I would have added "and things of that sort," but there are
no " things of that sort " except Handel's.
    I send you your Taine. I cannot sympathise with all this
eulogy of the Brownings ; I have dipped into bits of Aurora
Leigh, and have been exhausted after ten lines ; I detest it ; as
for the passages quoted in the P.M.G. translation, the first is
revolting, the second trite. " The Letter killeth, but the Spirit
giveth life" of our old friend Paul is quite enough for practical
purposes, and it 1s not amplified with advantage. When it comes
to saying " Art is life " I give it up ; it is rubbish. I do not
like that woman, so I fought shy of Taine, who, too—for I
did read some of him rapidly—seemed to me to be much cry
and little wool.
    Nettleship brought an unpleasant picture of a black beast
against a tapestry background (he said it was moonlight, but that
was absurd) and two skins of snakes hard by and wanted me
to admire it the other day : I disliked it very much, but I liked
it better than Mrs. Browning, or Mr. either, for the matter
of that. . . . Yours very truly,                    S. Butler.

        144                       EREWHON                                 1x
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
  1871       [Early in 1871]—I have nearly finished my book [Erewhon]
Aet. 35 and am rewriting and correcting the whole : will you read the
        MS. by small instalments, each about the size of a good long
        letter, at a time ? If so, I will send you some at once. It is
        meant to be entertaining and is not more than 200 printed pages.
        I am not at all sure that I shall publish it, and you may save me
        from committing a grave indiscretion.
             Will you or will you not ? I should very much like your
        opinion.
              Evidently Miss Savage agreed, for about two days
        later he sent her some of the MS. asking her to make
        a pencil cross wherever she disapproved.
             The passage I like best is my reflection on my attempted
        conversion of Chowbok.
             [And now, July 27th, 1901, this is one of those which I
        dislike most and would most willingly cancel.—S. B.]
              From this time until her death, in 1885, Butler
        submitted to Miss Savage everything he wrote, and
        remodelled it in accordance with her criticisms and
        suggestions. It must have been while she was reading
        the MS. of Erewhon that she said to him :
              " I can't help thinking how stupid I have been to have
        known you all these years and never to have found you
        out," meaning that during all the time since they had first
        met he had never impressed her as being other than an
        ordinary person.
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
             [End of April or beginning of May, 1871]—Can you name a
        time and place when and where I can trespass on your good
        nature further ? And yet I cannot call it trespassing, for one can
        only trespass on things that have bounds, and your good nature
        has none.
            I have condensed, cut out, transposed, amended, emended, and
        otherwise improved the MS., but there are a few points about
        which I am still in doubt and should be very thankful for a little
        further advice. . . .
            They have hung one picture for me at the Academy [called
        in the catalogue " A Reverie," probably a girl's head]; it does not

.x                       VARALLO-SESIA                             145
 look well but that is not their fault. I was there all yesterday ; 1871
it is a capital exhibition. This morning I have been to the Inter- Aet. 35
national, which is also a capital exhibition, much better than I
expected and in such pretty galleries. . . .
     As regards the World of the Unborn, I have seized on what
you said about our having come here to avoid the prosing of the
didactic old parties in the World of the Unborn, and have made it,
so far as it will go, an apology for having been so didactic. The
next chapter opens with it.
      In 1 87 1 Butler went abroad early in May, travelling
via Antwerp, Cologne, Mayence, Carlsruhe, Basel, Gersau,
Altdorf, Amsteg, Wasen, Hospenthal, and Bellinzona to
Arona, on the Lago Maggiore, where he stayed some time,
crossing over the lake nearly every day to Angera and the
Rocca Borromeo where he sketched. From Arona he
went to Varallo-Sesia, and stayed there some weeks at the
Albergo d' Italia. He was led to go there by the
accounts he had heard of the Sacro Monte, and or* its
frescoed chapels full of life-size, terra-cotta, painted
figures representing scenes from the life of Christ. The
first thing to be done was to find some one to show him
round ; and Carlo Topini, who afterwards became landlord
of the Albergo della Posta, but who was then at the Italia,
introduced him to Dionigi Negri, the Town-Clerk of
Varallo. Dionigi became his cicerone, and the friendship
thus begun lasted till Butler's death.
      He visited Fobello and Arona, whence he wrote Miss
Savage the letter that follows ; then he spent a day or
two at Bergamo, crossed the SplQgen, and returned home
in September.
      Miss Savage had business that took her to Crane
Court ; perhaps the office of The Drawing Room Gazette
was there. In going down Fetter Lane she must have
been trying to locate .the windows of Butler's rooms :
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
                                           Hotel d' Ital1e, Arona,
                                              Sund. Sep. II, 1871.
     Dear M1ss Savage—Yes, the window with the canvas in it
that you can see from Fetter Lane is my window. [Sampson
      vol. I                                                    L

        146                MUSICAL CRITICISM                             .x
 1871 Low & Co.'s house has been built since—before then my back
A«. 35 room looked out on to an open space and then on to Fetter Lane.
       — 1901. S. B.] Will you and Miss Johnson come some day and
       see my rooms ? . . .
            I liked Fobello. Ask me about the offertory when I come
       back, and the selling the wax arms and legs ; and the pictures
       (votive) of the women, in leggings and short blue petticoats
       trimmed with scarlet, falling from the tops of high ash trees when
       gathering leaves for the cattle, and the saints with very large
       gridirons who appeared underneath them and broke their fall ; and
       the woman who was tossed by a cow, and the outrushing of the
       whole family to see what the matter was ; and the dreadful little
       fat man in a blue tail coat and brass buttons, who stood in the
       middle of the picture and broke a blood-vessel at the saint till the
       blood on the ground stood upright as an heap, and he points
       reproachfully to it and implores his patron saint's assistance ;
       and the woman who was dug out of the avalanche ; and the
       gentleman who built a chapel and then brought his wife and all
       the servants to see how beautiful it was—so there they stand in
       every attitude of ecstasy.—Yours,                     S. Butler.
             In November 1871, Miss Savage wrote to him about
       A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement, and taxed him with
       having concealed it from her.
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
           I fancied myself pretty safe from detection. The Heatherleys
       detected me some two years ago, and I implored their silence.
       They both read it. I hate the book, but there it is ; I have
       never summoned up courage to read it. On its being sent out to
       me when I was in N.Z. I opened two or three pages and was so
       disgusted that I never touched it from that day to this, but I
       cribbed a few, sentences here and there from recollection (not more
       than two or three) for my MS. [Erewhon~\.
           I am afraid my criticism of Jephtha was too flippant. I
       wrote it and Mrs. Briggs seized it at once and put it in with all
       its faults. I never can see my own folly till some days after I
       have committed it. I am not to be trusted to write three lines
       unless I can keep them three weeks. Shall I write a short
       criticism of Israel in Egypt for this week ? If so, drop a post-card
       at once.
           Did you notice the bit of naughtiness in my review of yephtha
       about Handel's having evidently had Polyphemus in view when he
       wrote the overture ? If, as they say, whether truly or not—for I
       doubt it—he wrote his overture last with a view to summing up

                  A FOBELLO CHRISTENING                                             H7
the spirit of the whole work, it is noticeable that he should have 1871
reverted so nearly to " the monster Polyphe-heme " for his overture Aet. 35
to Jephtha. Was it unconsciously present to his mind that God's
treatment of Jephtha was something like that of Polyphemus in
respect of Acis ?
    I am crawling on with the re-writing of my MS. \_Erewhon\
but can only write on Sundays. Also I have begun my picture of
the Fobello christening.
    [I forget whether this picture ever got finished—yes, it did—
I sent it to the Academy and it was rejected, quite rightly. I
know I gave it to somebody, but I forget who. I wish I had
destroyed it.— 1901. S. B.]
     I possess a water-colour sketch for this picture ; the
people are standing in the church porch, the women
wearing the costume of the country with short skirts
showing their leggings ; the father is holding the baby
up to the priest, who has just come out of the church.
The priest's house is seen to the left through the columns
of the porch ; and to the right on sloping green fields are
the trees which are stripped by the women who wear
the leggings and short petticoats and fall off the trees
and get put into the votive pictures, and the leaves are
mixed with the mown grass to increase the hay. Probably
Butler gave the picture to Gaetano ; he often gave him
his old pictures and Gaetano sometimes sold them with
Butler's knowledge ; it was a way of helping Gaetano
and at the same time of getting out of his sight an object
that had begun to bore him.
     These two extracts will show what he means by " the
monster Polyphe-heme " ; the first is from the alto part
of the great chorus " Wretched lovers " in Acis and
Galatea :
     the mon.ster Po.ly.phe.heme the mon.stor Po.ly.phe.heme the mon.stcr Po.ly.phe.heme
     The second is the opening of the fugue in the overture
to Jephtha :
     Butler was constantly noting similarities between

        148            EREWHON CONDEMNED                              1x
 1871 different passages in Handel, e.g. between "The goodly
Aeu 36 fellowship of the Prophets " (Dettingen Te Deum) and
       the Muses singing round Jove's altar (L'Allegro and II
        Penseroso) ; and again between " Thou by God and man
       detested " in " Envy, eldest born of Hell " (Saul) and
       " A Man of Sorrows " in " He was despised " (Messiah).
       Sometimes he noted similarities between the music and
       what he thought it was describing, e.g. "The overture
       to Alexander's Feast is full of the hurry and bustle of
       servants going to and fro with plates and dishes."
             Near the end of 1871 Erewhon was finished, and
       Butler was looking for a publisher. He sent the MS.
       to Chapman & Hall, whose reader, George Meredith,
       condemned it, and Butler made this note :
            This is not strange, for I should probably have condemned
       his Diana of the Crossways, or indeed any other of his books, had
       it been submitted to myself. No wonder if his work repels me
       that mine should repel him. [1899. S. B.]
            He then tried Triibner & Co. who ultimately pub
       lished the book, though not at their own risk.
                             Butler to Miss Savage.
           Dec. 18th, 1871 — Triibner & Co. have my book again.
       They never so much as looked at it before, and said they supposed
       it was something to do with the Contagious Diseases Act.
       Now I am to pay their reader a guinea for reading it and giving
       an opinion ; I shall then have the right to bully him and tell
       him he is a fool if he does not like it.
           I toned down that description of the organ which I read you
       the other day and which you did not like.
           [She was quite right ; if I could tone it down more, or tone
       it out of the book, I would do so.— 1901. S. B.]

                         CHAPTER X
                                 1872
                             EREWHON
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
     1872 [probably 'January] — I write a line to say that I have 1871
 just had from Trubner & Co. a very favourable report of my Aet. 36
 MS. I could wish nothing handsomer. Still, Trubner does not
 say whether he will take the risk or no. When and where shall
 I meet you and show you the letter ? I daresay it is all humbug
 and you will see through it directly, but I have bolted it whole.
 If Trubner won't take the risk I'll get the money from some
 where or other.
     [Henry Hoare lent me the money to do it with, otherwise
 I do not know what I should have done.— 1901. S. B.]
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     [About February 1872]—Three lines to say that the first
 proof has reached me ; only about 12 pages to the end of the
scene with Chowbok in the woolshed ; I am not in doubt or I
would send the proof. It reads very well, and the type is
excellent ; even Pauli, who has been the most freezing critic
hitherto (in so far as he could be got to listen to a passage here
and there), thawed a little as he read ; the fact is he* is frightened
out of his wits about it, and expects my father to cut me off with
a shilling ; but he dares not say this because he knows I should
fly at him if he advised me to let my father's will enter into the
matter at all.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     March 1872 — I know you are ill. I knew you were ill
yesterday, and yet I plagued you with my book. I thought at
times how selfish I was—nevertheless I did it. I think you had
                                 M9

        ISO          UNIQUE COPY OF ERE WHON                                    x
  1872 better tell me about your "presumptuous resolution."               'Twill
Aet. 36 £0 no harm.        My impression is that I shall not think it
        presumptuous.
             I strongly suspect that your people plague you —very strongly ;
        it is a wicked world, and there are few who foil to make them
        selves unpleasant if they have the power to do so.
                               Butler to Miss Savage.
                                                                 Mar. 29, 1872.
             Dear M1ss Savage^— Erewhon is out and will be advertised
        to-morrow. I have your copy — the sample copy, i.e. the first
        issued. I have written your name in it to make sure ; also an
        inscription in which there is bad grammar and bad writing.
        Shall you be coming down to Crane Court ? If so please to call
        and you shall have it ; otherwise I will take it to Miss Johnson's.
        —Yours,                                                   S. Butler.
              This copy of Erewhon was sold in 19 14 by Bertram
        Dobell, second-hand bookseller, Charing Cross Road.
        Mr. Sydney C. Cockerell told me he had seen this entry
        in Dobell's catalogue : " Unique copy with the following
        note in the author's handwriting : ' To Miss E. M. A.
        Savage this first copy of Erewhon with the author's best
        thanks for many invaluable suggestions and corrections,'
        £1 : 10 : o." When Mr. Cockerell inquired for the
        book it was already sold. I saw Mr. Dobell and got him
        to follow the purchaser, who unfortunately had already
        parted with the book.
                               Butler to Miss Savage.
                                     [Early April 1872] 15 Cl1fford's Inn, E.C.
              Dear M1ss Savage—I have been meaning to write or call
         or both for days, but the Academy [sending-in day] is too near
         and I have been at my stupidest as soon as the day's work was
         done. Thank you for your letter of which the sarcastic part
         was delightful and the praising, if possible, more so. I know I
         shall become one of the most tedious bores in England if I only
         get the chance. . . .
              I have heard nothing more about the book except the verdict
         of one or two friends' friends ; on the whole I think their reports
         sound well, but am always sceptical about what my friends say
         unless it is by way of scolding. Mr. Heatherley said it did not
         drag and that it interested him throughout. I lay great stress on

 x        THE GEOGRAPHY OF EREWHON                              151
 Gogin's liking it ; he would not stand being bored beyond 1872
 reasonable limits. A friend of Pauli's, one of the proctors this Aet. 36
 year, read it and satisfied Pauli of his approval—handsomely.
 Giles, who has brains, read it through, from end to end, twice—
 beginning again as soon as he had done ; he told me it had not
 fetched him up anywhere for want of interest, and I think from
 his manner that he meant it.
     I fancy I see my way to getting some reviews, but it is rather
 early yet. I have got to finish my pictures and send them in
 to-day, so no more from Yours,                      S. Butler.
      The opening chapters of Erewhon might almost have
 come out of A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement, so like
 are the descriptions of New Zealand to the accounts of his
excursions looking for country. The statues, of course,
he invented ; he used to say of the great Handelian
chords which they moan : " One feels them in the
diaphragm — they are, as it were, the groaning and
 labouring of all creation travailing together until now."
     The only passage cribbed from the Canterbury book
which I have found in Erewhon is that in which he speaks
of the New Zealand rivers forking and re-uniting " like
tangled skeins of silver ribbons." But there is another
parallel passage in chapter iv. of Erewhon, after Chowbok
has left him and he is in difficulties alone in the gorge.
** I had indeed a narrow escape ; but, as luck would have
it, Providence was on my side." This may be taken to
be a hit at his father's preface to A First Tear in Canterbury
Settlement, and his being providentially induced to change
his ship.
                 The Geography of Erewhon
     Up as far as the top of the pass, where the statues are, keeps
to the actual geography of the Upper Rangitata district, except
that I have doubled the gorge. There was no gorge up above my
place [Mesopotamia] and I wanted one, so I took the gorge some
ten or a dozen miles lower down and repeated it, and then came
upon my own country again, but made it bare of grass and useless
instead of (as it actually was) excellent country. Baker and I
went up the last saddle we tried, and thought it was a pass to the
West Coast, but found it looked down on to the headwaters of
the Rakaia ; however, we saw a true pass opposite, just as I have
described in Erewhon, only that there were no clouds and we never

        152          HERBERT EDWIN CLARKE                              x
  1872 went straight down as I said I did, but took two days going round
Aet. 36 by Lake Heron. And there is no lake at the top of the true pass.
        This is the pass over which, in consequence of our report,
        Whitcombe was sent and got drowned on the other side. We
        went up to the top of the pass, but found it too rough to go
        down without more help than we had ; I rather think I have told
        this in my N.Z. book, but am so much ashamed of that book
        that I dare not look to see. I don't mean to say that the later
        books are much better ; still they are better.
            They show a lot of stones on the Hokitika Pass, so Mr. Slade
        told me, which they call mine, and say I intended them in
        Erewhon [for the statues]. I never saw them and knew nothing
        about them. [1884. S. B.]
             The view of the plains of Erewhon is the view of the
        plains of Lombardy from some such point as the Campo
        dei Fiori above the Sacro Monte di Varese, and the going
        down into Erewhon is the going down through the
        Leventina Valley in the Canton Ticino. The people he
        first meets with are drawn from North Italian peasants,
        who are dark, and, as he had to differ from them, he said
        he was himself fair ; but really he was also dark, or he
        would not have been taken for a Maori.
             Erewhon at once took its place in the front rank
        among works of satire and imagination. It describes an
        undiscovered country where ill-health is punished as a
        crime and those who commit what we should call crimes
        are treated in hospitals ; it also contains The Book of the
        Machines, The Musical Banks, and much else that is
        original and interesting. For instance, there is the trial of
        a man found guilty of suffering from pulmonary con
        sumption ; Butler took the judge's summing up from a
         newspaper report of a trial of a man found guilty of, if I
         remember rightly, theft, with scarcely more alteration than
        the name of the offence.
             I first made Butler's acquaintance, as will be related
         hereafter (post, p. 231), partly through one of my college
         friends, John Alexander Elder, who was a son of Alexander
         Elder of the firm of A. L. Elder & Co. of St. Helen's
         Place, Bishopsgate. Through John Elder I also made the
         acquaintance of one of the clerks of the firm, Herbert
         Edwin Clarke (1852-1 9 12), who became well known as

x                        LION-HOOD                            153
a poet and literary man. The firm of A. L. Elder & Co. 1872
had dealings with New Zealand ; they were agents, among            36
others, for Butler's friend Mr. J. D. Enys, and received
his wool. Clarke told me that in the course of business
he often saw bales of wool branded " Erewhon," which
came from a township some 50 miles west of Napier in
the Hawke Bay province, North Island, named after
Buder's book ; it will be found marked on the maps.
One of my New Zealand correspondents has since told
me that not only is there a township called Erewhon, but
that people sometimes call their houses after Butler's book,
and sometimes spell it " Erehwon," which is not what the
author intended. In reversing the letters of " Nowhere "
he treated " wh " as a single irreversible symbol, as one
would treat " th " or " qu."
     Erewhon was translated into Dutch in 1873 and into
German in 1879.
     The sensation created by Erewhon led to Butler's
having to undergo a period of lion-hood. He was never
a very lionisable kind of man, and his view of the matter
will appear from this note made in June 1887 and revised
in 1898 :
   John Morley, S1r George Trevelyan, and Myself
    When I was at Cambridge I met [Sir George] Trevelyan
once or twice at Raikes's rooms. I was told he was a genius ;
and feeling myself still weak, formless, and all uncertain of my
ground, I was overawed by one who I thought really did know
things of which I well knew that I was myself mainly intent on
trying to conceal my ignorance. I had neither strength nor
imagination to suspect that Trevelyan might be just as weak,
formless, and intent on concealing ignorance as I was ; besides he
played his part better and took in a good many people, whereas I
took in but few.
    Henry Hoare and [Sir W. T.] Marriott used to tell me I
should try and be like Trevelyan, and I believed them ; never
theless, it never got beyond a sense of duty ; I knew I did not
want to be like Trevelyan, and could not, even though I tried.
When I met him I expected to be dazzled as well as overawed ;
I was overawed, but not dazzled, for Trevelyan said hardly any
thing, and this, while making me uncomfortable, frightened me ;
for it made me think he must know himself to be so strong.

        154                         JOHN MORLEY                                            x
  1872 I came away with a sense that I had been uncomfortable, but still
Aet. 36 too weak to venture on rebellion even in my thoughts, and always
        spoke of Trevelyan as the genius my friends and neighbours said
        he was. At that time I used still to echo my poor mother who
        called that old fool Professor Kennedy a genius.1 I have since
        found that this silence trick is common with people who would
        get reputation cheaply. Rossetti, the painter, played it when I
        met him in Wallis's rooms shortly after Erewhon appeared ; he
        sat still, moody, impenetrable ; but this was the best part of
        twenty years later, and though still very ignorant and timid
        I was beginning to feel my feet, and to be more rebellious in my
        own mind. Now, I am free to confess, I feel fairly strong,
        though whether I really am so or not is a matter on which I
        know that my opinion goes for little. To return, however, to
        Trevelyan, or rather to John Morley, who was the other man
        whom Hoare and Marriott used to hold up to me as one whom I
        ought to attempt to follow in all humility, no matter at how
        great a distance.
             When Erewhon came out Hoare and Marriott kept urging
        me to try and imitate John Morley's style, so I got his Voltaire
        and disliked it very much. Then I was to meet Morley.
        Marriott was to give a dinner and Morley and I were to be
        brought together. This came off; Marriott gave a splendid
        feed, which I regret to say I have never to this day returned,
        and Morley and I were put to sit in the middle of the table side
        by side, and there was to be a feast of reason and a flow of soul—
        a part of the programme which did not come off. Morley talked
        a great deal, and so, I have no doubt, did I ; but I cannot, happily,
        remember one syllable that was said by either of us ; all I remember
        is that I disliked and distrusted Morley. In those days I was even
        more intolerant of Liberals than I am now, and I knew him to
        be a Liberal, as was Marriott, who had not yet got into Parlia
        ment, much less joined the Conservative party. I met Morley
        again a year or two later at Marriott's, and again we did not like
        each other ; but by this time my short-lived laurels had begun to
        fade, and Erewhon was passing for a book of which a good deal
        too much had been made.
             I may say in passing that I do not wonder at people's saying
        that Erewhon had been made too much of. I believe Erewhon
        to be all very well as a beginning, but nothing more. Of my
        later books I think to the full as well as any one else does. I do
        not doubt that Erewhon owed its success in great measure to its
        having appeared anonymously ; my Uncle Philip [Worsley] to
        this day is fond of telling me that this was so. I do not like my
              1 This is why Christina calls Dr. Skinner a genius in Thc fVaf sf all Flesh.

x              LANGAR AND EREWHON                            155
Uncle Philip, but believe him to be right in saying what he does. 1872
 The reviewers did not know but what the book might have been Art. 36
written by a somebody whom it might not turn out well to have
cut up, and whom it might turn out very well to have praised.
    In writing the concluding sentence of this note Butler
was thinking of The Coming Race (1871). The Diction
ary of National Biography, speaking of the author, Lord
Lytton, says, that the book " made a great success although
he kept the authorship secret until his death," which
occurred in January 1873, which was after Butler had
announced that he was the author of Erewhon. Never
theless it is quite likely that Butler was right in supposing
that the reviewers of Erewhon had Lord Lytton in their
minds, for there must have been rumours as to who had
written The Coming Race long before January 1873. At
all events, as soon as The Athenaeum announced that
Erewhon was by a nobody the demand fell 90 per cent.
    Probably Butler's reason for having his name announced
was that he had confided in so many of his friends that it
was not of much use to make a pretence of preserving
secrecy. He was aware, however, that the announcement
would be copied by other papers, and, not wishing his
people to hear the news first from a public source, he
wrote to Langar on the 28th of May and confessed at
some length, saying how well the book had been received.
" This," as he wrote to Miss Savage, " was injudicious."
The situation can be reconstituted by any reader of The
 Way of all Flesh, who imagines Ernest confessing to
Battersby that he was the author of such a book as
Erewhon. Theobald would not greatly care whether
Ernest's name appeared or no ; he would be willing to
believe that it had been withheld in the first instance in
order not to cause pain to his family, but that would not
lessen his grief that Ernest should have written such a
 book ; as to his feeling any satisfaction in Ernest's success,
Theobald would, on the contrary, rejoice to find it as
ephemeral as he was disposed to hope and believe it
might turn out to be ; and there would perhaps be some
edifying reference to the golden calf or the house of
Rimmon ; and since, for the present, Ernest's visits could

         156                 THE MACHINES                                  x
  1872 only be distressing, he was not to come to Battersby.
Aet. 36 ^nj Christina would write that everything tending to
        confirm her in the knowledge of how far apart were their
        views and feelings and hopes was a blow to her ; but she
        would have no right to be surprised, having had little
        hope that it would be otherwise ; and then she would put
        away her own selfish sorrow, and force herself to conclude
        her letter by writing cheerily on general topics. And
        there would be a little letter, also, from Charlotte, saying
        that she thought perhaps he did not quite realise how
        sad and disturbed they all were at home, and she would
        think to tell him a little about it, and to ask him to send
        a little word of sympathy, just to show that he understood
        a little how hard it must be for them all—not that she
        thought he did not quite realise, but that . . ., and so on ;
        wherein the abundance of "little's" and "thought's" would
        compensate for the absence of " bright," a word which
        her artistic instinct would prompt her not to use on an
        occasion of such deep sorrow.
                          Butler to Cl'arles Darwin.
                                     15 Cl1fford's Inn, Fleet Street, E.C.
                                                   May 11, 1872.
            Dear S1r—I venture upon the liberty of writing to you
       about a portion of the little book Erewhon which I have lately
       published, and which I am afraid has been a good deal misunder
       stood. I refer to the chapter upon Machines in which I have
       developed and worked out the obviously absurd theory that they
       are about to supplant the human race and be developed into
       a higher kind of life. When I first got hold of the idea, I
       developed it for mere fun and because it amused me and I thought
       would amuse others, but without a particle of serious meaning ;
       but I developed it and introduced it into Erewhon with the
       intention of implying : " See how easy it is to be plausible, and
       what absurd propositions can be defended by a little ingenuity
       and distortion and departure from strictly scientific methods,
       and I had Butler's Analogy in my head as the book at which
       it should be aimed, but preferred to conceal my aim for many
       reasons. Firstly, the book was already as heavily weighted with
       heterodoxy as it would bear, and I dared not give another half
       ounce lest it should break the camel's back ; secondly, it would
       have interfered with the plausibility of the argument, and I looked

    x                 FIRST VISIT TO DOWN                           157
    to this plausibility as a valuable aid to the general acceptation of 1872
    the book ; thirdly, it is more amusing without any sort of Aet. 36
    explanation, and I thought the drier part that had gone before
    wanted a little relieving ; and also the more enigmatic a thing
    of this sort is, the more people think for themselves about it,
    on the principle that advertisers ask " Where's Eliza ? " and
    "Who's Griffiths?" I therefore thought it unnecessary to give ,
    any disclaimer of an intention of being disrespectful to The
I Origin of Species, a book for which I can never be sufficiently
I grateful, though I am well aware how utterly incapable I am of
 1 forming any opinion on a scientific subject which is worth a
    moment's consideration.
        However, you have a position which nothing can shake ; and
    I knew very well that any appearance of ridicule would do your
   theories no harm whatever, and that they could afford a far more
   serious satire than anything in Errwhon—the only question was
   how far / could afford to be misrepresented as disbelieving in
   things which I believe most firmly. On thinking it over, I
   determined to say nothing in the preface, but to wait for a
   second edition before explaining—that is, if a second edition was
   called for. On the whole I think I did wisely, though I am
   sincerely sorry that some of the critics should have thought
   that I was laughing at your theory, a thing which I never meant
   to do, and should be shocked at having done.—I am, Sir, Yours
   respectfully,                                          S. Butler.
       P.S.—Let me beg of you not to trouble to answer this letter.
        I do not find any reply to the foregoing letter, but
   there must have been a reply ; and it, or some subsequent
   letter, must have contained an invitation from Mr.
   Darwin for Butler to visit him at Down from a Saturday
   to Monday. He went, and met Woolner the sculptor.
   His host was very civil and complimentary about Erewhon,
   and the visit seems to have gone off quite pleasantly.
   On the 30th May, Butler wrote to Mr. Darwin about
   some drawings of dogs made by Arthur May, a student
  at Heatherley's. Butler had procured the drawings for
   Darwin, who used them in his book, The Expression of
   the Emotions in Man and Animals (1872). The letter
   concludes :
       I shall be proud to send the second edition of Erewhon, which
  is now in preparation. I should have sent the first, but I felt
   very uncertain how far you might approve the book ; and in your

         158              MISS SAVAGE'S REVIEW                             x
  1872 answer to my letter you told me that you had sent for it. I have
Aet. 36 set myself quite straight in the preface about having intended no
        villainy by the machines, and I have added a bit or two here and
        there.
            With kind regards and many thanks to Mrs. Darwin and
        yourself for a visit of which I shall always retain a most agreeable
        recollection. —I am, Yours very truly,                 S. Butler.
             Butler was thankful that there were no copies of
        The Drawing Room Gazette in the British Museum
        because he did not wish any one to read his musical
        criticisms. I hope, however, that the day will come when
        I shall meet with some odd back numbers ; I should like
        to read his criticisms, and also I should like to possess the
        number. for 8th June 1872, because it contains a review
        of Erewhon by Miss Savage. Butler kept a copy of the
        review and it is reproduced in an Appendix (post, II.).
        The preface to the second edition of the book is dated
        9th June 1872, and among the press notices this passage
        from Miss Savage's review is quoted :
            In fact he (the hero) is a prig, and never has the character
       been more amusingly set forth. Moliere would not have disowned
       it ; and, indeed, there are touches here and there, which, if it
        were possible for departed spirits to be moved by earthly passions,
        would make him writhe with envy. ... It is enough to say
        that the lash of the author's satire falls fiercely on many of our
       social and religious hypocrisies and unrealities.
            Except for the announcement of the author's name,
       a new preface, and a few trifling alterations and additions,
       the second edition of Erewhon did not differ from the
       first. Butler wrote to Miss Savage that the trade had
       taken about 300 copies, and if they could galvanise it into
       life again until the second edition was sold out, he would
       not lose more than £25 on the whole matter ; and that
       Triibner did not think a third thousand would be called
       for. He made this note about it in 1901 :
            No moulds were taken, so that, as the demand was very
       strong, it was necessary to reset the whole work. Trtlbner
       ought to have told me about moulds, of which I had never
        heard. The demand fell off immediately on the announcement
       of my being the author, which appeared in The Athenaeum,

x            THE PROFITS OF EREWHON                             159
May 25. The sale has never quite died, though of late years it 1871
has been small. I am about ^69 to the good with it as near as Aet 36
I can remember.
     This, and Trubner's thinking that " a third thousand "
would not be called for, means, I suppose, that the first
and second editions of the book consisted of a thousand
 copies each. The second edition must have cost nearly
 as much as the first because of the re-setting ; after that
 moulds were taken. The first edition was exhausted
 between the end of March and the end of May 1872
 when the sales went down in consequence of the announce
 ment in The Athenaeum. This does not quite agree with
 the preface to the revised version of Erewhon where
 Butler says that the first edition " sold in about three
 weeks"; but that preface was written in August 1901,
 long after the events, and probably without reference to
all the foregoing documents, although he was at the time
 " editing his remains " and adnotating his letters. In
spite of TrQbner's opinion, a third thousand was called
 for ; but I do not know when, nor do I know how fast it
sold. A fourth thousand, also, must have been printed as
 time went on, because in The Note- Books of Samuel Butler,
 "Analysis of the Sales of My Books," he says that by
 1898, twenty-seven years after its first appearance, he
 had sold in all 3842 copies of Erewhon and made a cash
profit of £62 : 10 : 10, which with £6 : 13s., the value of
the stock, made a total profit of ^69 : 3 : 10.
     The next letter to Miss Savage was evidently written
in consequence of her having suggested his writing a
novel, and the scheme proposed by him shows how he
was affected by the reception of Erewhon at Langar :
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     16 June 1872—I send you a letter from my father which you
can return at your leisure. I bounced about the success of my
book through mistaken policy, and said I believed I had it in my
power to put my name in the front rank among writers of my
time and country—an unwise and boastful thing to say, and I had
better not have said it ; but it does not matter, for whatever might

          160              SCHEME FOR A NOVEL                                   x
  1 872 have been said would have been wrong. I only tell you because
Aet. 36 it will explain one passage in the letter.
              How about this for a subject ?
             A hero, young, harum-scarum, with a keen sense of fun and
         few scruples, allows himself to be converted and reconverted at
         intervals of six months or so, for the sum of ^100 on each occasion,
         from the Church of Rome to Methodism and back again by each
        of two elderly maiden relatives who have a deep " interest in the
        soul of the hero and the confusion of one another." Also he
        hangs an awful threat over his father (who is a respectable country
        parson and has forbidden him the house on account of his notorious
        wild oats and loose conversation) to the effect that he will go down
        to the village inn the night before the next Communion Sunday
        and take the Sacrament coram populo [if it should be populo ; I
        think it should, but had better have said " in public."—1901. S. B.].
        The threat shall hang like a sword of Damocles over the father's
        head. . . .
             But I am very doubtful about a novel at all ; I know I should
        regard it as I did Erewhon, i.e. as a mere peg on which to hang
        anything that I had a mind to say. The result would be what
        you complain of in Middlemarch ; the only question is, whether,
        after all, that matters much, provided the things said are such as
        the reader will recognise as expressions of his own feelings and as
        awakening an echo within himself, instead of being written to
        show off the cleverness of the writer. . . .
              It was probably in consequence of his having spoken,
        and perhaps written, to other friends about this proposed
        subject for a novel, that a legend grew up of his having
        actually gone to Langar and presented himself as a com
        municant in his father's church.
                               Butler to Miss Savage.
             22 June 1872—It is all very well, but I cannot settle down to
        writing a novel and trying to amuse people when there is work
        wants doing which I believe I am just the man to do. I shall
        never be quiet till I have carried out the scheme that is in my head.
             [Then followed a sketch of tny intentions as regards The Fair
        Haven, which grew out of a pamphlet I published in 1865 on the
        evidences for the Resurrection of Jesus Christ. —S. B. 1901.]
             By the way, I did not mean the hero to be sentimental towards
        the old flirt ; but I meant the old flirt, in the end, to be sentimental
        about the hero, and to wind up a long theological argument,
        during which her attention has evidently been wandering, by

x           PESTERED BY THE UNBORN                           161
flinging her arms about his neck and saying she would do anything 1872
for him if he would only love his Saviour.                       Aet. 36
     This about the hero and the old flirt probably relates
to some other scheme for a novel. Notwithstanding these
projected novels, which were all given up, Butler often
said that after Erewhon he felt that he could never write
another book. This is a note about it :
    I had written all I had to say ; indeed if I had had another
page of matter in me it would have gone into Erewhon. Never
theless, in a few weeks, I remembered the pamphlet I had
published in 1865, and thought I could make one more book,
after which I would relinquish writing for ever and stick to
painting.
     He was a painter, and Erewhon had been an interrup
tion. It had come pestering and tormenting him, like one
of those creatures from The Land of the Unborn, and had
refused to leave him at peace until he had consented to
undertake it, to harbour it, and to give it bodily shape.
It was only a little one, and, at the time, he thought 1t
unlikely that it would lead to serious consequences. But
soon another of the unborn came knocking at his door, and
was so persistent that he yielded to its importunities and
allowed himself to become the parent of The Fair Haven.
He was the less able to resist this successor because of his
disappointment that his pamphlet on the Resurrection had
made little or no impression. Perhaps it was too slight
in form ; perhaps he was too inexperienced a writer ; he
could see many faults in it since he had written Erewhon.
Voltaire said that a serious book should not be written too
seriously ; perhaps the secret of the success of Erewhon
lay partly in its being a serious book not written too_^..
seriously ; would it be possible to treat the Resurrection
as he had treated the analogy between crime and disease
in Erewhon ? There need be no irreverence. If every
good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh
down from the Father of Lights, then satire and irony are
from above no less than seriousness and solemnity. As
Mr. Higgs says, years afterwards, in Erewhon Revisited
(chap- vii.), " And yet, is there not Reason ? and is it not
     VOL. I                                               M

         1 62                THE NEXT BOOK                                   x
  1872 God-given as much as Instinct ? " It is a mistake to try to
Aet. 36 k^p these opposites in water-tight compartments. Never
        theless to publish a book written in this spirit as by the
        author of Erewhon might be to give away the satire and
        to get himself into deeper disgrace at Langar.                 If the
        success of Erewhon was partly due to its anonymity, why
        not make this second book also anonymous? Or how
        would it be this time to do it under an assumed name, with
        a memoir of the supposed author—a little biography,
        something very plausible, that should for the time satisfy
        Miss Savage's craving for a novel, and also show him
        whether or no he would ever be likely to succeed with a
        novel ?
             So he invented a pseudonymous author for The Fair
        Haven and began sending the MS. of the memoir to Miss
       Savage for her advice and criticism.
                             Butler to Miss Savage.
            July 1872—So that is what you want me to do: "To sit
        down with the foregone conclusion to write a novel " with oddity
        rather than originality for the result. No. If I have talent, it
        may be safely let alone to work its own way out ; if I have not,
       it does not matter two straws what I do.—only the best thing
       would be for me to dojiothing.
            If I do write a novel after what I have got on hand now, I
       shall write two or three bad ones first, and then a better one or
       two ; but I must be allowed two failures first. What I am doing
       now is a genuine thing ; done not because someone wants me to
       do it, but because I am bursting with it. . . .
            I am raising the intellectual side of my man, whose name is
       Richard Purdoe Davies, and making him a more subtle, foggy,
       hazy, mystical creature—well up to the latest Spectator cant.
            He now "hardly belongs to any of the more precise and
       definite schools of theological thought" and, though many
       "earnest reformers within the body of the Church" will sym
       pathise with not a few of his opinions, " it yet remains to be seen
       whether his conclusions will succeed in commending them
       selves " etc.
            His brother, whose name is Hesketh Davies, reviews him very
       candidly—sympathetically, but not slavishly. I have improved the
        MS. since you saw it. You told me that you sat up to read it and
        that next day you felt cross and ill ; but that is all you said about

 x               MISS JOHNSON'S MORALS                              163
 it, so I fear you did not find it quite up to par; I daresay I shall 1872
 not find it so when I read it again.                                   Aet. 36
                                                            July 1872.
      Dear M1ss Savage—I want to use that story you told me
 about a lady who said her prayers when she saw you were looking
 and did not say them when she thought you were asleep. Of
 course I shall alter it past recognition. I want it for R. P.
 Davies's childhood, which I am now writing. I have introduced
 many details from my own recollection, and I think you will
 like what I have done, only I am afraid you will say it is too
 funny for the book. I must have that story, and, knowing that
 you will consent, have already used it.—Yours very truly,
                                                        S. Butler.
                                                            July 1872.
      Dear M1ss Savage—Miss Johnson is quite right in saying that
 it is immoral to transfer a non-transferable ticket for the Old Bond
 Street Gallery and not immoral to do so for the Royal Academy
 Soiree. In the first place the R. Ac. people cannot have you up
 before the police-court if they find out—or at any rate will not do
so—whereas the Old Bond Street people very likely would. The
 R. A. have practically no weapon against you but your own finer
and more delicate sense of honour (I should say " us " and " our "),
and cannot expect that this should bear the same strain as the
coarser sense of fear on which the Old Bond Street people can rely.
      Besides the prize is greater—a brilliant evening and a first-
rate supper are worth cheating for ; and though cheating for
the sake of a shilling would be unworthy of Miss Johnson, she
may be excused for doing so for the sake of at least six or seven
shillings. . . . Yours very truly,                      S. Butler.
                       From Butler's Diary.
      1872. Aug. 7 to Sept. 28. Went abroad: Basel, Berne,
Interlaken, Scheinige-Platte, Mtlrren, Lauterbrunnen. Walked
over the Wengern Alp with Dr. Talbot [afterwards Bishop of
Rochester], whom I had never seen before and have never seen
since. Grindelwald, Interlaken, Frtltigen, Kandersteg, Gemmi,
Visp, Saas, Monte Moro, Macugnaga, Ponte Grande, Barranca,
Fobello, Orta (I remember writing a couple of pages of The Fair
Haven on my camp-stool a little below the Colma : at this time
I made it a rule to write a couple of pages of my book daily, and
I generally wrote them while resting on a walk in the open air),
Omegna, Pallanza, Simplon, Brieg, Miinster, Grimsel, Handeck,
Meiringen, Interlaken, Berne, Paris, and home by Calais.

         164                   D. G. R0SSETT1                                   x
                             Butler to Miss Savage.
                               Poste Restante, Interlaken, Sw1tzerland,
                                           Friday, Sep. 13, 1872.
  1872       I returned here the night before last and found your letter
Aet# 36 and enclosures awaiting me. Thank you for enclosures and
        thank you for your letter, but I never said that the Miss               s
        were two old cats ; they are two old cats, but upon my word
        and honour I have not the remotest recollection of having said
        so. ... I am not enjoying myself at all. You are quite right—
        I do not idle well. I will try to mend. I am going up to
        Grindelwald this afternoon, and will go en pension for a fortnight
        at the best hotel, and there are sure to be some people there who
        will suit me and who will let me bore them. I have not seen a
        soul save waiters and chamber-maids this four or five weeks, and
        it is not good for me.
                                                Gr1ndelwald, Sep. 23, 1872.
             I am coming home shortly ... I want to finish my book
        and get back to painting.
             You ask me about Rossetti. I dislike his face and his manner
        and his work, and I hate his poetry and his friends. He is
        wrapped up in self-conceit and lives upon adulation. I spent
        a whole evening in his company at H. Wallis's, W. B. Scott
        being the only other except Wallis, Rossetti, and myself. I was
        oppressed by the sultry reticence of Rossetti's manner, which
        seemed to me assumed in order to conceal that he had nothing
        worth saying to say. I liked W. B. Scott well enough ; the
        other two were horrid.
                                                                     Oct. 1872.
             Dear M1ss Savage —Yes, go on lying [about The Fair
        Haven]. You lied well to Miss Collingridge, but you must
        not give anyone any hints at all ; do as I do, lie to everyone
        except yourself. I rather despise you for having told me that
        you told Mr. S. anything at all ; you ought to have told him
        everything and then sworn to me that you had told him
        nothing ; if I had ever found you out I should have thought
        none the worse of you. . . . Yours very truly,
                                                                 S. Butler.
              Some correspondents on receiving such a letter might
         have been puzzled ; but we may be sure that Miss
         Savage knew the right course to take and took it.
         When she posed as a skilled liar, the reader will perhaps
         have guessed that her object was to dissociate herself

x               SECOND VISIT TO DOWN                          165
from the Pharisees. Butler has a note that in the game 1872
where you are asked your favourite author, etc., Miss Aet" 36
 Savage gave as her greatest faults " Lying and covetous-
 ness." And he adds: "The company was a good deal
 scandalised."
      In November, on the invitation of Mr. Francis
 Darwin, Butler paid another visit to Down. He thought
 he was received by Charles Darwin with a certain amount
 of coldness ; if this was the case it may have been due
 to Mr. Darwin's health, but it may equally well have
 been nothing but Butler's fancy. On the Sunday after
 lunch he read to the sons in the smoking-room some of
 the Memoir which precedes The Fair Haven. Whether
 or not it was the effect of this reading he could not
 determine ; he came away, however, with the impression
 that the father's coldness had worn off towards the end
 of the visit. But he was never invited again. He met
 Charles Darwin later on at the house of his brother,
Erasmus Darwin, with whom he was invited to lunch.
Either on one of the visits to Down or at the luncheon
party the conversation turned on the expense of making
corrections after a book was in type, and, according to
a note made by Butler, Charles Darwin said he had paid
about ,£150 for the corrections in his book The Expression
of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Butler as a young
author was much interested in this. Here is another
note about Darwin :
     I remember hearing Charles Darwin say that when he began
to write on evolution he did not find a single man who accepted
it ; he spoke emphatically : " There was not one " he said " of
my friends who accepted it."
     All I can say is that he must have been very unfortunate
in his friends ; with seven or eight editions of the Vestiges sold
already, there were plenty of believers in evolution, if he had
chosen to look for them. True, the doctrine was generally
rejected, but, if the public had not been ripe to receive it, The
 Times would never have backed him from the outset as it did.
If The Times and a few other leading papers had not backed him,
he might have written till now and made very little impression.
      Dr. Butler's Whitehall estate, referred to in chapter i.,

        1 66        SALE OF THE WHITEHALL                          x
  1872 consisted of about twenty -eight acres of land in the
Aet. 36 Abbey Foregate, on the outskirts of Shrewsbury, on part
        of which stood a fine old Elizabethan mansion-house,
        circa 1575. By his will he left this property to his
        daughter, Mrs. Lloyd, for life ; then to his son, Canon
        Butler, for life ; then to the eldest son of Canon
        Butler as tenant in tail. The contingent interests of
        possible remaindermen were duly considered, but nothing
        need be said about them here, because, in the events
        which happened, they did not become vested. Some
        part of the land had already been bought compulsorily
        by railway companies and the purchase money settled on
        the trusts of Dr. Butler's will. Mrs. Lloyd occupied the
        mansion-house, the remainder being let as grazing land
        at £90 per annum. That was the state of affairs in
        1857 when, Butler being still an undergraduate at
        Cambridge, his cousin, the Rev. Thomas Lloyd, son of
        Mrs. Lloyd, proposed to buy the mansion-house and
        about six acres of land ; Mrs. Lloyd and Canon Buder
        were both willing to sell, but the consent of Butler as
        tenant in tail was necessary, he being Canon Buder's
        eldest son. His interest in 1857 was not likely to become
        vested for some years, and by that time the land would
        probably have become ripe for building ; so that his aunt
        and father were entitled to life interests in a property
        not bringing in much rent, while his reversion, though
        contingent on his surviving them, was to building land—
        a prospective property of much greater value. The idea
        of his being advised by a separate solicitor does not appear
        to have occurred to any one, although he was only just
        of age and quite unversed in business matters. He did
        as he was told, joined in cutting off the entail, in selling
        the house and six acres of land to his cousin, and then
        in resettling the remainder of the land, the Whitehall
        fields, together with the purchase-money, on terms similar
        to those on which the property had originally been settled
        by Dr. Butler's will.
             In a long note about " Fathers and Sons " made in
         1887, about six months after his father's death, Buder
        wrote :

x               THE WHITEHALL FIELDS                           167
      I believe, however, that what rankled most with my father 1872
about me was that I had a reversionary interest in the Whitehall Aet. 36
 fields, and, being unmarried, should be able to rub along fairly
well although he never left me a penny. He was robbed of the
consolation of knowing that by a few strokes of the pen he could
at any moment arrange that on his death I should not have any
sj^oej_or_stockings. He knew that I was keenly alive to this fact
myselfandtnaTlo be alive to it meant that I should, and did,
take all action with a view to it. Nevertheless, the fact that I
had this modest competency prevented him, I imagine, from
putting out all his strength against me ; for there was no fun in
doing his worst when that worst was so inadequate. Not that he
wanted me to go without shoes and stockings ; I do not believe
he wanted this for one moment ; what he wanted was that the
power to settle whether or no I was to have shoes and stockings
should be vested in himself and not in me.
      It was probably from jealousy of my having a voice in the
matter at all that my father did as much as he could to render
that voice nugatory by getting me in 1857 to sell the Whitehall
(I mean the house) to my cousin without receiving any quid pro
quo myself. There was obvious gain in the transaction to both
the tenants for life ; they got a certain income of /100 a year,
without deduction for repairs, instead of an uncerta1n one ; but
there was no conceivable gain to me. I did not get the entail cut
off, it was cut off with one hand in order to be put on again with
the other by way of resettlement. I got no advantage direct or
indirect ; some of the land was valued as garden land, but Burd
appended a note to his valuation that this would have been valued
at a much higher figure if it had been valued as building land.
There was no reason why it should not have been valued as
building land, but it was sold as garden land. I never knew this
until I came across Burd's valuation in one of my father's tin
boxes after his death ; what else there may have been I knew not,
for I only came across this paper by accident in looking for a map
of Watford Gap ; I pounced upon it, copied it, and returned it to
my cousin as executor with a note saying what I had done. I
suppose it [the valuation] is my own property, but I am not very
likely to see or hear of it again nor should I have done so then
but for an accident.
      And in " editing his remains " he wrote on one of the
letters dealing with the transaction : " How they bam
boozled me!"
       Chapter xi. of Eretvhon, " An Erewhonian Trial,"
originally included the trial of a young man for having

             1 68       THE WHITEHALL QUARREL                             x
       1872 been so inexperienced as to part with a valuable property
     Aet. 36 to his guardian for an insufficient sum without independent
             professional advice. He was convicted ; and the judge in
             sentencing him said that young men have no business to
          \ be young, inexperienced, greatly in awe of their guardians,
         y heirs to nice houses, and without independent professional
             advice. Pauli made him cut this out as being likely
   J*       J"° be ta^en f°r an allusion to the sale of the
^ ^       ~r Whitehall, which of course it was ; and Pauli, as a man of
 \ vVv       t'ie wor^, saw no advantage in irritating Canon Butler
>>           unnecessarily.
                  Butler copied the passage for me and pasted it into my
             copy of Erewhon. I lent this copy to a friend who
             omitted to return it, and I could not dun him for it
             because I forgot which friend it was. I hope, should he
             happen to read this, that his conscience will smite him and
             that he will send me back the book. When Butler made
             the revised edition o"f Erewhon in 1901 he added to this
             particular chapter, calling it " Some Erewhonian Trials,"
             and among the additions will be found this passage
             restored.
                  In the autumn of 1872 there was talk in Shrewsbury
             of moving the schools ; the Whitehall fields was one of the
             proposed new sites, and, in view of the possibility of its
             being chosen, Butler was asked to join with his aunt and
             father in selling. He was no longer under twenty-two ; he
             was now thirty-six and had acquired some experience. He
             went to Shrewsbury, and, avoiding his father's solicitor, con
             sulted a solicitor on his own account—an old schoolfellow.
             He told him all about the sale of 1 857, and was advised that
             he ought to take proceedings to have it upset, which he
             was assured could be done. Proceedings were accordingly
             threatened, and a long and angry correspondence with his
             father ensued. His point was that the Whitehall with its
             adjoining land had been sold in 1857 for a sum that had
             been arrived at without taking into account his prospective
             interest in the property as building land, and that he had
             been made to resettle the remaining property and the
             proceeds of sale upon terms which left his interest as it had
             been before, that is contingent upon his surviving his aunt

x           THE NEW ZEALAND MONEY                             169
and father ; whereas if the resettlement had enlarged his 1872
interest into an absolute reversion, subject to the life Aet. 3*
interests of his aunt and father, he would have received
some sort of quid pro quo. He complained that advantage
had been taken of his youth and that his being separately
advised had not even been suggested. He asked that, as
the price of his consent to the present proposed sale to the
schools, his interest under his grandfather's will should be
enlarged so as to become an absolute and no longer a con
tingent reversion. His aunt and father refused to agree
to this, and he accordingly refused to join in the sale.
     Nothing came of all this at the time, because, in the first
place, another site for the schools was decided upon, and,
in the second place, his mother's health was such that she
was seen to be dying, and on that account he dropped the
threatened proceedings.
     He was the more anxious about his interest in the
Whitehall fields because he had begun to grow uneasy
about his money which was invested in the colony. It
took too long to get a reply to a letter ; he had had bad
accounts of his New Zealand agent, had changed him and
did not like his new one ; he had left the colony some
years and did not know who jnightj1ayejaken to^drinking '
arjd^be^ojne^mitrustworthy ; he was continually on the
point of being dragged out to New Zealand to look after
things. He therefore determined to have his money over
in England ; it was about £8000, and although he saw no
prospect of getting in England anything like 10 per cent,
the current rate of interest in the colony, he thought that
4.i or 5 per cent would provide enough for himself and
Pauli ; that is, to supplement what Pauli ought soon to
be making at the Bar, and what he himself ought soon
 to be making by selling pictures. He therefore called in
his money. In 1898, in the account of the friendship
 between himself and Pauli, he wrote :
     All this is a story that haunts me and will haunt me to my
 dying day ; for it was my great friend, William Sefton Moorhouse,
 who was my mortgagee—one of the very finest and best men
whom it was ever my lot to cross—a man who had shewn me
infinite kindness and whom I never can think of without remorse ;

         170                       REMORSE                                *
  1872 whether I could have avoided it or no, I do not, and did not, see
Aet. 36 how I could without breaking faith with Pauli. If it was a trespass
        to call in the money, may I be forgiven, as from the bottom of my
        heart I forgive Pauli, for whose sake I did it. However, let it
        pass ; it makes me sick to think of it.
             A curious thing about this is that Moorhouse was not
       the kind of man to feel that Butler had ill-treated him by
       calling in the money. In 19 12 I wrote to Sir Joshua
       Strange Williams, who knew both Butler and Moorhouse
       in New Zealand, asking if he could remember or think of
       any reason why Butler should be so full of remorse about
       what he did. In his reply, 6th January 19 13, he says :
            Moorhouse I knew very well. I don't think there was any
       necessity for Butler to have blamed himself for calling in his
       money. You might call in money from Moorhouse as you might
       call spirits from the vasty deep, but the response in either case
       would be doubtful. Moorhouse was the best of good fellows, and
       absolutely straight in money matters as in everything else. But
        money was to him as dross and he was normally impecunious.
        He was always cheerful, and I don't suppose Butler's calling in
        the money affected him in the least. Moorhouse never let money
       or the want of it worry him.
             Buder often referred to this subject, and I tried to get
       him to tell me why Moorhouse should be so seriously
        inconvenienced by the calling in of the money. I did not
       then know that Moorhouse was so unbusinesslike and
        happy-go-lucky ; but I was in a solicitor's office, and I
        knew, and pointed out, that, the security being good,
        Moorhouse probably had no difficulty in borrowing from
       some one else, and that to transfer a mortgage is a simple
       proceeding. Butler gave no reason ; he thought he had
        done a high-handed and shabby action in calling in his
       money without consulting Moorhouse, whose good opinion
        he thought he must have forfeited by behaving in such
        an overbearing manner. When he suspected people of
        attempting to browbeat him he hit back fiercely. But
        Moorhouse did not hit back and this was like coals of fire
        on his head. He may have had some reason which he
        would not tell me, but I think not ; for, as I saw over and
        over again, if any one was kind to him he could never do

x                THE MONEY COMES                         171
enough in return, and if he thought he had neglected an 1872
opportunity it made him miserable.                           Aet. 36
    In this case, Moorhouse, unlike the spirits of the vasty
deep, responded satisfactorily ; the money gradually came
from New Zealand, and while it was coming Butler was
seeing a great deal of his college friend, Henry Hoare,
a partner in the bank in Fleet Street, who had paid for
the printing of Erewhon,

                                CHAPTER XI
                                    1873—Part I
                                THE FAIR HAVEN
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
  1873        [Early 1873]—Darwin [/.*. Frank Darwin—S. B. 1901] is
Aet. 37 with me and I cannot write much. You say you hope I do not
         like Joshua Davidson. Of course I don't. I hate it.
              I send another sheet of The Fair Haven and another will
         follow this afternoon or to-morrow. You are now over the
        stupidest part, and from henceforth the mischief becomes worse
         and worse till within a few pages of the end. You see I was
        obliged to feed them a little at first in order to encourage them
        to swallow the rest.
             I am in statu quo ; perfectly well, taking no medicine, and
        free from pain, but unable to walk more than 200 yards without
        bringing on a relapse.
              The following fragment was copied by Butler, not
        from the first letter Miss Savage ever wrote him, but from
        the first of her letters of which he kept any part. She
        was lame and always walked with a stick ; evidently he
        had noticed that she wanted a new stick and had given
        her one.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
             Feb. 1873 • • • Please excuse this long letter. It is very
        egotistical, but as you burn all my letters and I have not got to
        concern myself about appearing in an amiable light to posterity,
        why I don't mind about that. Please let me know how you
        are. . . .
             P.S.—Do you know that I was very nearly deprived of that
        beautiful stick you gave me ? I have been staying at Primrose
                                         172

x1                     JULIUS BERTRAM                            173
Hill [with the Bertrams], and on Sunday morning I chanced to 1873
look out of window (a providential circumstance which should be Aet. 37
a sufficient answer to the sceptic), and there I saw my staff, " sole
palfrey now," lying on the steps of the garden ; and presently
Julius Bertram approached it with a saw in his hand. Of course
I screamed out " Murder " and thereby saved my stick. He
was going to saw it into a perch for Toby. Toby is a green
parrot.
     The Julius Bertram mentioned in this letter can have
been only a boy at the time it was written. He is a
solicitor, and at the time I first made his acquaintance,
about 1908, was a Member of Parliament. I am indebted
to him for some of the particulars about Miss Savage
given above.
     In the course of writing The Fair Haven Butler
changed the name of the supposed author to John Pickard
Owen, and his brother became William Bickersteth Owen.
                        Miss Savage to Butler.
                                                      Mar. 8, 1873.
    My dear Mr. Butler—I have read the two sheets of The
Fair Haven—they are wonderful. How glad I am that I happen
to know you, otherwise I might never have read your books ;
it is such a chance, my reading a new book, and just fancy my
going down to my grave without having read either of them !
I should certainly have come back. When will The Fair Haven
be ready altogether ? I long to read it straight through. . . .
    [Then follows a whole page of commendation of various points
in the book—which I omit. —S. B.]
    Poor Purdoe ! (I won't call him Pickard) I wish his fate
were not so tragic ; I should like him to be living on, smug and
happy. But you were quite right to kill him ; it was much best.
That he recovered from his delusion and died of the recovery
gives a stamp of probability to his having written the book, and
all through you have individualised him so thoroughly that one
can scarcely be surprised at people taking it all for his true con
victions and for the satire being all unconscious. But what
sanglant satire it is !
    You have individualised Purdoe (for I tell you I will not have
him as Pickard) all through without any seeking after it. That
is why I am so sure you could write such a beautiful novel.
George Eliot and Mrs. Oliphant are so dreadfully afraid that the
reader will not see what they mean that they keep on explaining

         174               "A GOOD HUSBAND"                                 x,
  1873 at you till you get offended and bored. . . . The moral is this :—
Aet. 37 That I want a novel—ever so many novels—and that I have
         come to look upon you as an admirable novel-making machine
         and that you ought to be set going. . . .
              I have had a weekful of small miseries. I went to the club
         to vent my ill humour on my friends there and found them all
         gone in a mass (of three) to hear the debate on the Irish University
         Bill, and there were only my enemies in the club, with whom I
         am always beautifully polite. . . .
              Apropos of my enemies, I must just tell you this : The day
        that only my enemies were at the club old Miss Andrews wished
        I might have a good husband. One could easily see that she was
        inwardly gloating over something very different. So I smiled
        sweetly and said :
             " Thank you, Miss Andrews ; the same to you and many
        of them."
             Whereon she retreated growling to her table where she was
        writing in her diary. I hope she wrote it down ; I was greatly
       delighted with my little victory.
             I have quite made up my mind about Cromwell from my
       knowledge of his descendants [Miss Andrews was descended from
       Cromwell.—S. B.], and I have known several. I should say he
       was vindictive, fanatical, superstitious, egotistical, selfish—but I
       forgot that you burn my letters, so it would be a pity to waste so
       much valuable information. I shall keep it for someone else who
       doesn't. Good-bye. Are you getting stronger ? Thank you a"
       thousand times for sending me those two last sheets.
                                                       E. M. A. Savage.
            P.S.—The debate on the Irish University Bill is transferred
       to the club. They are at it hammer and tongs. I wonder what
       it is about. Do you know ? If you do, please write and tell me.
       When it is over there will be some chance of having a little
       rational society.
            Besides Purdoe I have had another pleasure this week. Miss
       [Bertha] Thomas came to the club to pay me a visit. She was
       dressed in a greyish green, soft, sunny-looking stuff, and she
       looked more like a little rosebud than ever. I have quite forgiven
       her her share in the club difficulties.
                             Butler to Miss Savage.
                                                             March 9, 1873.
             Dear M1ss Savage—I have walked too much and am again
       a prisoner, but under promise of release in four or five days, if I
       am good ; otherwise under threat of a longer business.

x1                          EBN OAZ                             175
     You praise my book too much and I don't believe a word of 1873
it. The reason why I did not write at the reader (if I have not) Aet. 37
was simply because I dared not. It would have been unsafe for
me to do so, for whatever I did had to be done with a view to
stupid people not seeing through it at all, and even clever people
being in a good deal of doubt. Under other conditions I should
probably have out-Oliphanted Mrs. Oliphant, and so with that
other woman.
     As for your novelette, what does it matter whether the plot is
new or old—your own or somebody else's ? The plot is nothing.
I never could make one. If I write a novel I shall take one and
alter it. Still I think your plot could easily be altered into
something that would steer clear of the one that you have un
earthed and which frightens you. I send the enclosed as a
specimen which you can doubtless rearrange much better. Only
pray do something, no matter what. While doing it, ideas will
strike you that will never strike you until you begin to do. You
are letting great talents and excellent opportunities go to waste.
I am quite sincere—not being given to flatter nor liking to be
 flattered—not when I see through it. And yet I do not know ;
I suppose I do like it, even then. We all do.
     I do not know what I shall write next. I do not want to
write anything in particular, and shall paint until an idea strikes
me which I must work out or die, like The Fair Haven. I shall
do nothing well unless con amore and under diabolical inspira
tion. I should hope, however, that attacks on The Fair Haven
will give me an opportunity for excusing myself; and, if so, I
shall endeavour that the excuse may be worse than the fault it is
intended to excuse. . . .
     If I do a novel I shall send you the plot to hack and rearrange
for me before I do it.
                                              Yours very truly,
                                                       S. Butler.
     The hiatus after ° intended to excuse " is due to
Butler, not to me. He destroyed his original letter and
kept a copy with a passage omitted here. I have no
doubt that he had in his mind, and perhaps wrote to
Miss Savage, a story, which he often told, about the
Sultan who challenged Ebn Oaz, his jester, to invent an
excuse that should be worse than the crime it was intended
to excuse. The jester presently pinched the Sultan's leg,
and, the Sultan appearing to be offended, Ebn Oaz excused
himself by saying :

         176                FAITH AND REASON
  1873       " Pardon me, Your Majesty.        I thought I was pinching
Aet. 37 Her Highness the Sultana."
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
             10 March 1873—I am afraid that affectation is your great
        fault. I have thought so before—now I am sure. I flatter you !
        What nonsense—when you must know that I do not say a quarter
        of what I think, or else you are not so sharp as I think you are.
        You said I flattered you before, about Erewhon ; and then, when
        all the critics set themselves to sing your praises in chorus, my
        small commendations must have seemed very tame and flat. Please
        don't pretend to be so modest. I shall only think you want more
        praise, and then you will get none. I don't think you quite
        understood me. I intended to say that if the sole aim and object
        of your book had been the delineation of Pickard Owen's character
        he could not have been more completely and vividly put before
        us. . . .
            P.S.—I have christened your cat " Purdoe," a good name for
        a cat. I baptised it with ink.
              The Fair Haven appeared at the end of March 1873.
        In form it is what the title-page describes it, " A work in
        defence of the miraculous element of our Lord's ministry
        upon earth, both as against rationalistic impugners and
        certain orthodox defenders ; " it is presented as though
        written " by the late John Pickard Owen, with a Memoir
        of the author by William Bickersteth Owen."
             In meditating on the subject Butler came to think
        that in the pamphlet on the Resurrection he had confined
        himself too closely to the intellectual view ; man is capable
        also of an emotional view which deserves at least to be
        stated. If there is a domain of Reason there is also a
        domain of Faith, as, on a chessboard, there are both black
        and white squares ; they do not overlap, but each defines
        the limitations of the other, so that the bishop who moves
        on the black squares and the opposing bishop who moves
        on the white can never attack each other directly, and
        therefore neither need seek directly to defend himself
        from the other ; they feel each other's influence only
        through the other pieces.

x1              JOHN PICKARD OWEN                        177
     John Pickard Owen inherited from the author a 1873
temperament at once deeply religious and deeply sceptical ; Aet. 37
he passed through various theological and spiritual
experiences, including a period of infidelity, and, after a
stormy voyage on the seaof reason, anchored at last in
the Fair Haven of a faith that through trial and suffering
has learnt not to fear to admit the possibility of doubt.
In this state he began to write the book ; but he went
out of his mind before he could complete it, and died
leaving the fragment to be edited and published by
his brother, William Bickersteth Owen, who is supposed
to write the Memoir of the author.
     Old Mr. Owen, the father of the brothers in the
Memoir, is Butler's own father by contraries ; that is, he
is just what Canon Butler was not. Mrs. Owen is Mrs.
Butler as like as he could get her, occasionally perhaps
exaggerated. As a portrait it is not so complete as
Christina ; in the Memoir there was no room for more
than a sketch. If it be thought that in doing this he was
not treating his parents with due respect, it must be
remembered that he was treating his own past self in
precisely the same way ; for he drew John Pickard Owen's
 character, childhood, and youth from his own. He was,
as a boy, much outraged when he discovered that " the
 petticoats and clothes which envelop the female form
were not ... all solid woman, and that women were not
 in reality any more substantially built than men, and had
legs as much as he had—a fact which he had never yet
 realised." And when he first saw a fowl being prepared
 for roasting, his own irritation, like John Pickard Owen's,
 " had been extreme on discovering that fowls were not all
solid flesh, but that their insides—and these formed, as it
appeared to him, an enormous percentage of the bird—
were perfectly useless."
     "Truly a prosaic young gentleman enough," as
William Bickersteth Owen says of his brother ; but not
more prosaic than the author, who thought he could tell
whether a shepherd was idle or industrious by watching
him asleep (ante, p. 40). In the following passage from the
 Memoir of John Pickard Owen he is describing himself •
     vol. 1                                           N

        178                  CHRIST'S DEATH                              x.
  1873       Everything with him was to be exactly in all its parts what it
Aet. 37 appeared on the face of it, and everything was to go on doing
        exactly what it had been doing hitherto. If a thing looked
        solid, it was to be very solid ; if hollow, very hollow ; nothing
        was to be half-and-half and nothing was to change unless he had
        himself already become accustomed* to its times and manners of
        changing ; there were to be no exceptions and no contradictions ;
        all things were to be perfectly consistent, and all premises to be
        carried with extremest rigour to their legitimate conclusions.
        Heaven was to be very neat (for he was always tidy himself), and
        free from sudden shocks to the nervous system, such as those
        caused by dogs barking at him, or cows driven in the streets.
        God was to resemble my father, and the Holy Spirit to bear
        some sort of indistinct analogy to my mother.
             The discovery that some of the boys had never been
        baptized and the effect that this had upon John Pickard
        Owen's religious development are both reproduced from
        his own experience ; but Butler stopped short of joining
        the Baptists and was never " immersed in a pond near
        Dorking."
              After the Memoir comes an Introduction in which a
         parade is made of the author's intention to put the case
         for infidelity as strongly as possible ; but the reader need
         be under no apprehension, for there is also a promise that
         a sufficient answer will be forthcoming at the proper time.
         " He who would cure a disease must first know what it is."
         " No one knows what they [the unbeliever's arguments]
         are better than I do. No one was at one time more
         firmly persuaded that they were sound. May it be found
         that no one has so well known how to refute them."
              He then considers the theory of Strauss, who, while
         admitting that Christ died upon the cross, does not admit
         that he came to life again, but considers his subsequent
         appearances to have been due to hallucination ; his
         followers not really seeing him but only thinking they
         saw him.       This hallucination theory is shown to be
         untenable ; but that does not interfere with the death on
         the cross, which may be considered established because
         Strauss did not deny it ; and, as he was a noted infidel, he
         assuredly would have denied it if he had seen his way
         to do so.

x1                 THE CHRIST-IDEAL                              179
     Then we have a chapter on " Certain Ill-judged 1873
Methods of Defence "—a consideration of Dean Alford's Aet. J7
notes on the Gospel accounts of the crucifixion and sub
sequent events. This is taken, with acknowledgements,
"from an anonymous pamphlet dated 1865, but without
a publisher's name, so that I presume it must have been
printed for private circulation only "—an allusion to his
own pamphlet.
     Then comes a chapter headed " More Disingenuous-
ness," followed by two chapters on " Difficulties Felt by
Our Opponents," in which the rest of his pamphlet is
reproduced ; because, as he says, he knows of no other
English work in which whatever can be said against the
orthodox belief in the resurrection and the completeness
of the death has been put forward.
     The next chapter, " The Christ-Ideal," contains such
passages as this :
    Suppose we were driven to admit that nothing in the life of our
Lord can be certainly depended upon beyond the facts that He
was begotten by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary ; that He
worked many miracles upon earth, and delivered St. Matthew's
version of the Sermon on the Mount and most of the parables as
we now have them ; finally, that He was crucified, dead, and
buried ; that He rose again from the dead upon the third day
and ascended unto Heaven. Granting, for the sake of argument,
that we could rely on no other facts, what would follow ?
Nothing which could in any way impair the living power of
Christianity.
     The last chapter is headed " Conclusion " ; here we
expect at last to meet with the fulfilment of the promise
that a sufficient answer shall be provided to all that can be
said against the orthodox view, and this is what we get :
    It is not probable that Strauss would have taken refuge in the
hallucination theory if he had felt that there was the remotest
chance of successfully denying our Lord's death : for the difficulties
of his present position are overwhelming as was fully pointed out in
the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th chapters of this work. I regret, however, to
say that I can nowhere find any detailed account of the reasons
which have led him to feel so positively about our Lord's death.
Such reasons must undoubtedly be at his command, or he would
indisputably have referred the resurrection to natural causes.

         180              FAITH AND REASON                           x1
  1873       Strauss's opinion that Christ died on the cross, there-
Aet. 37 fore, turns 0ut to be of less consequence than we had been
        led to suppose ; nevertheless it is all we have left in opposi
        tion to the arguments of the pamphlet. And so much
        for Reason. We now turn to Faith, shifting from the
        black squares to the white :
             " How many thousands are there in the world at this
        moment who have known Christ as a personal friend and
        comforter and who can testify to the work which He has
        wrought in them ! I cannot pass over such testimony as
        this in silence." And there is the fact that for nearly
        two thousand years Christianity has flourished. But we
        must not dwell upon these views ; let us return to the
        crucifixion and resurrection.
             " What, then, let me ask of free-thinkers, became of
        Christ eventually ? " and, after considering and rejecting
        several answers, "What remains as the most reasonable
        view to be taken concerning His disappearance ? Surely
        the one that was taken ; the view which commended
        itself to those best able to judge—namely, that He had
        ascended bodily into Heaven and was sitting at the right
        hand of God the Father. Where else could He be ? "
             It must not be supposed that in this Butler was
        jeering at John Pickard Owen for believing that Jesus
        Christ died and rose again. If any one could believe such
        a thing, and especially if he could derive any comfort
        and satisfaction from believing it, Butler had no desire
        to laugh at him. His attitude, however, towards the
        muddleheadedness which thinks to find in the emotions
        a satisfactory solution of difficulties raised by the intellect
        was different Reason lunges in quarte ; Faith parries in
        tierce, and blandly claims a victory. And this is why
        William Bickersteth Owen does not omit to tell us of
        his brother : " Hardly had the fragment which follows
        this Memoir received its present shape, when his over
        worked brain gave way and he fell into a state little better
        than idiocy." Butler thought that this admission ought
        to have been enough to open people's eyes to his intention,
         or at least to put readers on their guard.
             I believe he seriously hoped that The Fair Haven

x1         OPINIONS WORTH HOLDING                          181
would induce people to reconsider the Gospel accounts 1873
of the crucifixion and resurrection. He thought that Aet. 37
the book would be read by some who would never open
a professedly unorthodox book ; he hoped that such
readers would come to think the matter over for them
selves instead of taking their opinions second-hand. "_ He
intended it to be a help to all who, like Ernest, wished
to find out, not that the Gospel accounts were all accurate
or were all inaccurate, but whether they were accurate or
not ; and who did not care which result they should
arrive at, but were resolved to reach one or the other
{The Way of All Flesh, opening of chapter lx.). [ He was
puzzled when The Fair Haven fell flat. It was not a
mere pamphlet ; it was a whole book dealing with what
was alleged to be the most tremendous event in the
history of the world ; and, in investigating and consider
ing the only evidence about this event, namely the earliest
known accounts of it, he had proceeded in a spirit of
sincerity, pursuing truth wherever he could discern it,
and seriously acting in accordance with what he had been
taught to believe were Christ's own precepts ; and yet
people in general passed it by, or, if they paid any attention,
either misunderstood him or chuckled at the ingenuity of
his irony—an irony which he was driven to adopt to veif|
his purpose from his father. It was a long time beforg_\
he realised that people in general are, in the main, good
sensible fellows, like the farmers at Battersby in The Way
of All Flesh (ch. xv.) " equally horrified at hearing the
Christian religion doubted, and at seeing it practised."
This, to a certain extent, explained matters ; for in The
Fair Haven he had been both practising and doubting
with all his soul and with all his strength. But he was
not really at ease about it until, like Ernest (ch. lxxxvi.),
he reached the further point of realising that " no man's
opinions can be worth holding unless he knows how to
deny them easily and gracefully, upon occasion, in the
cause of Charity."
    He wrote to Miss Savage (18th March 1873) that
Messrs. Smith, Elder & Co. considered the scheme of
the book unjustifiable. " And yet," he wrote a few years

        1 82                  REV. E. A. ABBOTT                             x1
   1873 later, " what did I do in this book other than what the
Aet. 37 Church does ? She attacks reasonable conclusions under
        the guise of defending them, with;- a view to impose on
        those who have not wit enough to find her out."
              As an instance of how the book struck people, here
        is a note made in 1885 about the Rev. Edwin A. Abbott.
        The substance of the note is repeated almost in the same
        words in 1896, but the ending is a little fuller.
             Abbott, of the City of London School, and I were at St.
        John's together ; he was junior to me, nevertheless I knew him
        a little. Then we did not meet till my Erewhon days when we
        ran across one another at Henry Hoare's. He was very civil
        and friendly. By and by he asked me to dinner and I went.
        I found him a dull fellow. I am very sorry ; but this is what he
        was, and a dull, pedagogic fellow into the bargain. There was a
        man named Seeley there, who had written Ecce Homo—trash
        which Mr. Gladstone had had a fit over, as of course he would ;
        and I was out of my element. Then I wrote The Fair Haven
        and was asked again. Abbott was a good deal pained, and would
        not believe I did not really mean all I had said in the Christ-
        Ideal chapters. He said to me :
             "And did you really mean none of that part seriously ? "
             I said : " Certainly not ; I intended it as an example of the
        kind of rubbish which would go down with The Spectator."
             Abbott said : " Well, I can only say you would have found a
        great many to sympathise with you, if you had meant it seriously."
             I said, rather drily : " That, I think, is exceedingly probable,"
        meaning that there was no lack of silly insincere gushers.
             Abbott did not see what I meant, and we parted genially.
             I did not see him again for some years, and then we met in
         Oxford Street. We looked at each other to see if we should
        greet or no ; but there was a common, mutual instinct which
         made us equally settle the question in the negative, so we passed ;
         the blame, if any, being, I should say, as nearly equal as possible.
         After we had passed we each turned round and caught the other
         doing so, but again we each immediately went on in opposite
 ,      directions. Now we always cut each other.
             [The second note ends thus :] We cut each other now by
         mutual consent, but it is years since I even met him in the
        street. I do not know who began the cutting, but I should say
         it was six of one and half-a-dozen of the other. Every now and
         then I see him announced as publishing some book with an
        unpleasant title. There is one as follows in this morning's
         Times, and it is this that has led to this note :

x1                 WHEAT AND TARES                              183
     "Messrs. Macmillan have in the press and will shortly publish 1873
a work by the Rev. Edwin A. Abbott entitled The Spirit upon Aet. 37
the Waters, or the Evolution of the Divine from the Human. It
endeavours to show that a believer in evolution may remain a
believer in natural Christianity unassailable by science ; and that
one who may be unable to accept the miracles of the Bible as
historical may nevertheless retain his faith in the Incarnation,
the Atonement, the Spiritual Resurrection of Christ, and the
Doctrine of the Trinity." Times, Nov. 6, 1896, p. 4.
    It saves trouble to both of us that we should not speak, for we
cannot understand one another.
     Butler recognised in later life that Christianity is not
necessarily all bad merely because Jesus Christ did not
rise from the dead. Mixed up with the Incarnation, the
Atonement, the Resurrection, and the Trinity, none of
which was of any use to him, there are eternal truths,
as there are in all religions, however much they may
contain that is false. Young John Pickard Owen and
young Ernest Pontifex did not understand that nothing
can exist at all unless it contains some of its opposite.
Later, they came to realise that the enemy sows tares in
every wheat-field, and we must have patience. Butler's
youthful attitude towards professional religion appears in
a " quotation from memory " which he sometimes used :
" Resist God and he will fly from you." We shall see
when we come to the Appendix to the second edition of
Evolution Old and New, to his dealings with the Rosminian
fathers in 1882, and to his correspondence with Professor
Mivart in 1884, that he seriously hoped for, and attempted
to bring about, a reconciliation between the Church and
those who deny the miraculous element in her teaching.
His attitude was then changed, and is best shown by
another " quotation from memory," " Jesus ! with all thy
faults I love thee still." But nothing came of this desire
for reconciliation—perhaps because there is no possibility
of any agreement as to which is wheat and which tares ;
or the difficulty may lie in the hearts of the disputants
and not in the nature of the crops. After 1892, when
the problem of the Odyssey began to engross his mind,
the religious difficulty ceased to worry him, except in so

       184                   SMALL MISERIES                           «
  187J far as appears in his later books, especially in Erewhon
Aet. " Revisited.
            The Fair Haven being published, Butler now turned 1
       his attention to writing a novel and consulted Miss
       Savage about it. He read Middlemarch, which had been
       published the year before, and I have no doubt he did
       this at Miss Savage's suggestion ; she probably thought
       he might pick up hints from it, and anyhow it would do
       him no harm to know the kind of novel that was meeting
       with success.
                             Butler to Miss Savage.
            18 March 1873—I am reading Middlemarch and have got
       through two-thirds. I call it bad and not interesting : there is
       no sweetness in the whole book, and, though it is stuffed full of
       epigrams, one feels that they are lugged in to show the writer
       off. The book seems to me to be a long-winded piece of studied
       brag, clever enough I daresay, but to me at any rate singularly
       unattractive.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
            24 March 1873 —When am I to have my Fair Haven I
        I have a commission to write some tracts, not religious ones,
        Dieu merci ! but almost as bad, about the Medical Act and the
       registration of births. I am supplied with pamphlets and speeches
       on the subject ; but reading them makes me so very stupid that
        by the time I know all about it I shall not be in a condition to
       write anything. I daresay you will never have another letter
        from me. . . .
            My life was full of small miseries last week. I was very late
        in the morning, so took a cab to catch the train. Then I forgot
        to get out at the right station and had to come back again. So
        I spent a shilling and was later than if I had walked slowly to
        the train. That happened on Monday, and I was cheated out of
        sixpence on Tuesday, and lost a glove on Wednesday. These
        are the things that turn one's hair grey before the time. But
        that is enough of my woes. Having lost sixpence I must
        economise.
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
            March 25, 1873 —I had become ashamed of that silly plot
        even before I got your letter of yesterday. I will have no

x1                          COLTMBIA                             185
sensation and no mechanically constructed plot at all—only such 1873
incidents as naturally grow out of the initial conditions ; but I Aet. 3J
will try to make the incidents interesting. All else is humbug.
Thank you for the trouble you took. . . .
     I am more a prisoner than ever—completely laid up, but quite
well ; and I do not find the time hang particularly heavy. You
can have your Fair Haven whenever you like to call for it, or I
can send it either to Crane Court or to the Women's Club. Do
not come, if you call here, before 4.30.
     What do you mean by pretending that your letter was possibly
the last I should ever receive from you ? You frighten me. My
 mother is ill—very ill. It is not likely that she will recover.
                        I had rather
                        It had been my father, etc.
     I am pained about it. She is at Mentone, and, though my
 father writes as if he had no hope, they clearly do not want me
 to come, which is as well ; for, though in such a case I should
 travel, yet the less I am on my feet the better. I ought to keep
 them up. What pains me is that I cannot begin to regain the
 affection now which, alas ! I have long ceased to feel. . . .
     I have finished Af1ddlemarch ; it is very bad indeed. I am
 sorry for your little troubles ; I wish I could think that you have
 none others — but it is a bad world. Why don't you write a
 story ?
      In 1873 (or possibly at the close of 1872) Messrs.
 TrQbner published Colymbia — another Utopia. The
 author, whose name was not given on the title-page, was
 Dr. Robert Ellis Dudgeon, who, however, said nothing to
 Butler about the book while he was writing it. Colymbia
 was got up to look as much like Erewhon as possible—
 the page and type being identical—evidently in order to
 make people think that it was by the same author ; but
 Dudgeon had nothing to do with this. I do not under
 stand how any one can have been deceived, but they were.
      Colymbia, the country discovered by the hero, is
 under the sea in the lagoon of a coral island on the
 equator ; the people breathe through pipes, which bring
 air down and distribute it about the inhabited area, and
 see clearly under water by using suitable spectacles. The
 eye was Dudgeon's special subject, and he published a
 book on it ; he was also a great swimmer and diver and
 invented subaqueous spectacles. In Colymbia there are

        1 86                  MRS. GELSTONE                                 x1
  1873 Seminaries of Useless Knowledge, but very little is said
Aet. 37 about them. There is, however, a whole chapter on
        Transcendental Geography (ch. iv.) :
            There exists somewhere—but as no one has ever been there,
        so no one affected to know where—a vast country whither all
        Colymbians would some day go, provided they had accurate views
        respecting the said country.
             It is quite likely that the Seminaries of Useless
        Knowledge and the Transcendental Geography were due
        to conversations with Butler ; but there is nothing else in
        the book that puts me in mind of Erewhon.
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
            Mar. 31, 1873—I have done wrong, and lent Colymbia to a
        friend without your permission ; but I hope that you will forgive
        me in consideration of the reason for it. At the club last Friday
        at lunch time the Miss L         's proclaimed, "We know who
        the author of Colymbia is." Whereupon Mrs. Gelstone promptly
        cried out, " Oh, so do I. / know who is the author of Colymbia"
        In the evening she told the story and I naturally asked who he
        was. Then she said that she had not the faintest idea who
        wrote it, but that she could not stand the Miss L             's airs.
        I was so pleased with her that I lent her Colymbia on the
        spot. . . .
            Send a copy of The Fair Haven to The Literary World.
        They will be sure to believe in it and it will be great fun. It
        has an immense circulation ; all the dissenters read it. May I
        lend mine to old Granville ? If he asks more questions about
        Bickersteth I can say he has gone back to America.
                           Charles Darwin to Butler.
                                           16 Montague St., Portman Sq.
                                                   April 1 st [1873].
            My dear Mr. Butler—I have delayed thanking you for
        your present [a copy of The Fair Haven] until I had read it
        through, which I have now done. It has interested me greatly
        and is extremely curious. If I had not known that you had
        written it I should not even have suspected that the author was
        not orthodox, within the wide stated limits. I should have
        thought that he was a conscientious man like Blanco White,
        whose autobiography you no doubt know.

x1              "VERY NICE AND KIND"                          187
    It will be a curious problem whether the orthodox will have 1873
so good a scent as to detect your heresy. I have just seen G. R. Aet. 37
Greg and told him of the book (but not of course who wrote it),
and he will read it. He remarked that the orthodox will read
almost anything, if not purposely made offensive to them ; and
no one can say that you have done this. But you will soon be
universally known. Leslie Stephen, a regular reviewer, who
was lunching here, knew you were the author. What has struck
me much in your book is your dramatic power— that is to [say]
the way in which you earnestly and thoroughly assume the
character and think the thoughts of the man you pretend to be.
Hence I conclude that you could write a really good novel.
     I' have been surprised at the strength of the case which you
make for Jesus not having died upon the cross ; but I do not
know whether to be convinced. In the way of small criticisms
there seems too much reiteration about the middle of the book.
It would, I think, be well when long and many passages are in
inverted commas, to repeat who is speaking—I got sometimes
confused. Your book must have cost you much labour, and I
heartily hope it will be widely distributed ; but it is not light
reading.
     I have been very sorry to hear of your strain—if you could
have come here we should have been very glad to have seen you
at luncheon or dinner.—Yours very sincerely,
                                             Charles Darw1n.
      In a note made in 1880, Butler, referring to this letter,
 says, " Very nice and kind. He told me he thought I
should do well to turn my attention to novel -writing.
All scientific people recommend me to do this." But he
 did not consult Mr. Darwin about his proposed novel.
 He probably had an instinct that the eminent naturalist
 would be less likely than Miss Savage to enter sympa
 thetically into his scheme.
      I took a recent opportunity of asking Sir Francis
 Darwin if he knew who G. R. Greg was ; he thought it
 must be a mistake for W. R. Greg, that is William
 Rathbone Greg, author of Enigmas of Life, who would
 naturally be as much interested in The Fair Haven as
 Leslie Stephen. We shall probably never know whether
 Charles Darwin showed or mentioned the book to any
 others of his friends ; he cannot have said anything about
it to Professor Huxley ; at least we may be certain that

        1 88            DEATH OF MRS. BUTLER                                       x1
  1873 Huxley had not read either The Fair Haven or Buder's
Aet. 37 pamphlet on the Resurrection when he wrote " Agnos
        ticism : a Rejoinder." * In that essay will be found an
        admirably lucid statement of his reasons for holding that
        the evidence contained in the Gospels is insufficient to
        support the view that Christ died and rose again ; and,
        as they are similar to those contained in the pamphlet
        and The Fair Haven, if he had been even slightly indebted
        to Butler, of course his essay would have contained some
        prominent statement to that effect. It is gratifying to
        know that so acute a thinker as Professor Huxley con
        sidered the matter independently, and arrived by much
        the same paths at much the same conclusion.
             At the beginning of April Butler went to Mentone ;
        his mother died there on 9th April and was buried the
        following day. His father gave him to understand that
        her death was caused by his having published Erewhon.
        Any stick is good enough to beat a dog with, and Butler
        naturally resented being treated as a dog ; nevertheless
        he could afford to laugh at his father for beating him
        with such a preposterous stick as this. One of the
        doctors who attended the patient suspected the existence
        of an internal tumour ; and there was some talk of a
        post-mortem examination, the result of which, though it
        might have supported the doctor's view, might, on the
        other hand, have disclosed a cause of death less unsatis
        factory to one of her descendants who had views of his
        own about heredity. Canon Butler, however, was not
        a descendant, and declined to allow any examination to be
        made ; thus, incidentally, keeping himself free to indulge
        a belief in the correctness of his own diagnosis.
             On his journey to his mother's death-bed Butler made
        the acquaintance of Mr. E. Seymer Thompson, of
        Christ's College, Cambridge, with whom he travelled
        from Calais to Mentone. Mr. Thompson wrote to The
        Morning Post (June 29, 1909) apropos of the celebration
        of the Darwin centenary at Cambridge, with an anec
        dote about Darwin and Dr. Butler which he said Butler
        had told him. In consequence of this letter I made the
                 1 Nineteenth Century, April 1889. Collected Essays, vol. v. 1894.

x1                  THANKING DARWIN                              189
acquaintance of Mr. Thompson ; he told me that he never 1873
saw Butler again, but he had followed his career and Aet. 37
read his books. This is one of many instances I have
met with of people coming across Butler for a few hours
and never forgetting the impression he made on them.
                     Butler to Charles Darwin.
                                                          »5. 4. 73.
     Dear Mr. Darw1n—Your very kind letter concerning The
Fair Haven was forwarded to me at Mentone, from which place
I returned on Sunday morning early. You will doubtless have
seen the cause of my journey in The Times obituary list.
     Had I known how ill my poor mother was, I could not have
brought out or even written my book at such a time ; but her
recovery was confidently expected till within a fortnight of her
death, and it was not until I actually arrived at Mentone that I
knew how long she must have been ill and suffering. I must
own that I feel there is something peculiarly unsuitable in the
time of my book's appearing ; but it was actually published before
I was aware of the circumstances. I am thankful that she can
never know.
     Of course, it remains to be seen what the verdict of the public
will be ; but I am greatly encouraged by the letter received from
yourself and Mr. [Leslie] Stephen. There is also a very good
review in last week's National Reformer. The writer is evidently
puzzled. Of course, all I really want is to force on the fight and
 help towards compelling an attitude of fixed attention in the place
 of cowardly shrinking from examination.
     I shall try a novel pure and simple with little "purpose"
 next ; but it remains to be seen whether I can do it. I would
say that I would have no " purpose " in my novel at all ; but I
 am still in the flesh, and, however much the spirit may be willing,
 I fear that the cloven hoof will shew itself ever and anon. My
 strain is better. Again thanking you very sincerely for all the
 kindness you have shewn me, believe me, with kind regards to
 Mrs. Darwin, Yours very truly,                       S. Butler.
      Miss Savage managed to extract amusement out of
 the pseudonymity of The Fair Haven.                  She wanted
 every one to read it, but had to resort to a little mild
 deceit lest any one should guess it was by a friend of hers.

       190            A NOVELIST'S EDUCATION                              *1
                            Miss Savage' to Butler.
I?73        1o April 1873 • • • ^ou should have heard me discoursing
   37 about it yesterday. I said it was a sweet book (so it is), and
       most convincing ; it had been lent to me by a religious friend in
       hopes that it would do me good, and it had done me good. My
       friend (the one whom Miss Collingridge so longs to know)
       declined to borrow it, but is going to tell his clergy-people friends
       what an excellent work it is, and how efficacious in removing
       doubts.
           I said I did not know the author ; the book had been lent
       me by an earnest friend. I was enchanted with myself, but
       longed for an appreciative audience. Miss Collingridge came
     - on Sunday. She said she had been told that your book would
       shortly be published. I said you were not writing a book at
       all—at least not that I was aware of. She was evidently pleased
       at being better informed than I was.
            Butler probably received the foregoing letter on his
       return from Mentone ; there is a note saying that he wrote
       a short letter to Miss Savage on his return and destroyed
       it in going through his correspondence. After which
       she seems to have called upon him. The allusion to
       Balzac in the next letter confirms me in my suspicion that
       he read Middlemarch on Miss Savage's recommendation.
                           Miss Savage to Butler.
           April 19, 1873—I shall send you some Balzac. ... I shall
       find something for you. Not that I want you to write novels
       like Balzac, heaven forbid ! But then, I don't think you could
       if you tried ; and if you could, I am sure you wouldn't, so it
       doesn't matter ; but he was a great novelist and you should see
       what his work was like. Good-bye. I was very glad to find
       you so much better than I expected.
           P.S.—By all means let your friend Mr. Hoare make you go
       more into society ; but if he hopes thereby to get more Bulwer,
       I flatter myself that he will be disappointed. I haven't been
       dunning you for novel this twelvemonth past for that.
           [I forget whether Miss Savage ever sent me any Balzac, but if
       she did I will undertake to say that I never read any. I destroyed
       a letter I sent on 29 April saying that my pictures were rejected

x1                             MILD DECEIT                            191
for the Academy, that I was now quite well, and working at 1873
Heatherley's. 31st July 1901.—S. B.]                                         Aet. 37
                            Miss Savage to Butler.
     28 April 1873—Your friend Mr. M'Cormick is going to have
a bazaar of ladies' work by way of getting his church out of debt.1
My mother is busy knitting muffetees for it. I have not been
asked to contribute, but I have a sweet little pincushion which
was given me in 1857 and has remained done up in tissue paper
ever since, so I shall send that ; it will probably realise sixpence
which Mr. M'Cormick shall be very welcome to have. You
might send a few copies of The Fair Haven to be raffled for, on
the second day, for I cannot encourage you to hope that they
would be bought up on the first day. . . .
      I am going to lend my copy to old Miss Andrews just to see
what she will make of it. I shall tell her that Mrs. Gammell's
son, the clergyman, lent it to me. I shall write "James
Gammell, Oatwood Parsonage " on the fly-leaf. She has seen
the old lady and will believe my romance. She begged me last
night to apologise to you for never having thanked you for your
present of Erewhon. She means to do so as soon as she has time.
She thinks you would do a great deal of good by writing short
things in the style of Erewhon.
                            Miss Savage to Butler. .
     29 April 1873 — I like your notions for the novel very
much. I am sure it will be good. But there is no hurry.
I don't feel in any hurry because I don't want you to write
yourself out before I die ; and I would rather wait now than want
in fifty years' time. I perceive that what I have said is un
complimentary ; please forgive me. I don't think you will write
yourself out in fifty years and spoke unreflectingly.
       This must refer to his first settled scheme for the novel
which ultimately grew into The Way of All Flesh.
                            Miss Savage to Butler.
      [yd May 1873]—" Eh bien ! il existe par milliers en Europe
et en Amerique des chretiens qui lui donneront [a Strauss]
    1 The Rev. Canon Joseph M'Cormick, D.D., was from 1867 to 1875 Perpetual
 Curate of St. Peter'i, Deptford, S.E.

        192             CROMWELL'S DESCENDANT                                              x1
  1873 a chaque instant raison en detail, et qui pourtant persisteront a se
Aet. 37 dire chretiens, par la raison toute simple que la plupart de ces
        critiques de detail passent par-dessus le christianisme qu'ils
        professent."—Revue des Deux Mondes, 15th March [1873].1
             You see, my dear Mr. Bickersteth, that les beaux esprits se
        rencontrent and that there are " milliers " of persons who have
        found their representative man in your late lamented brother
        Pickard. To say nothing of Miss Andrews who declares that
        Pickard's arguments always have been hers.                        It was really
        delightful the easy way in which elle s'est donnee dans le piege.
        It will not be delightful for me when she finds out how she has
        been tricked, however. Nothing short of my expulsion from the
        club will satisfy the descendant of Cromwell. I hope you will
        stand my friend with Mr. Hoare when the crisis comes, and in
        the meantime put off connecting The Fair Haven with Erewhon
        as long as you can. The old woman is in a most vindictive
        frame of mind just now because of the resolution that I am going
        to propose to-morrow night, which is to let one of the club
        rooms. Most of the members say that it will be impossible for
        the club to exist if we have only two rooms and Miss Andrews
        continues a member. I retort by saying that if one is to indulge
        one's antipathies the club ought to consist of as many cells as a
        county gaol.
             Poor old Miss Andrews ! I am still fond of her. I told her
        the most tremendous lies about The Fair Haven. I wrote first
        of all on the fly-leaf
                                         I. B. Surgey
                                     Blading, Ap. 1st, 1873.
        Then I asked if she would like to look through it, but said that
        I could only let her have it till Monday. She accepted, and I
        must say I quaked a little lest she would see your hand in it.
         However, on Monday she gave it back, telling me that it was
         most interesting and asking for a longer loan of it, as a friend of
        hers was greatly delighted with it and would like to finish it.
        But, of course, my friend had lent it to me for a week only and
        was going back to the Isle of Wight, so I couldn't.
             She said she had been most interested in the Memoir. " That
        is the part I have not yet read," said I. So then she began to
        tell me all about Pickard and Bickersteth and the events of their
        childhood and spoke with strong reprobation of their mother,
        expressing surprise that the sons should have continued to feel so
        much reverence for her. She also told me the anecdote of the
            1 This is taken from a review by Albert Reville of Strauss'a Der alto und dcr nau
        Glaube (1872). The italics are Miss Savage's.

x1                             MORE DECEIT                                      193
lady-visitor [which happened to Miss Savage herself as a child ; 1873
she gave it me.—S. B. 1901].1                                                         Aet. 37
      I then asked her opinion of the rest of the book ; declaring
that, though the arguments used might be very convincing to
those who believed alreadv, those who did not believe would
scarcely be influenced by them. She said she had not had time
 to read it thoroughly, but enough to understand the scope ; and
 then she began to talk quite learnedly about the gospels and their
authenticity and said that the arguments used by Pickard were
 those she had always used. But she spoke slightingly of poor
 Pickard ; I am sorry to say she called him " half-educated " ; but
she deeply commiserated his unhappy end. " It was most sad to
think of," she said. She then enquired about the person who
lent me the book ; and I described him as anxious about my soul
and gave her full particulars concerning him which are quite
authentic, all except the lending me the book and the interest in
my soul. By the by, I lent him Erewhon not long ago, and on
Saturday last I had a note from him in which he says : " How
can I ever thank you enough for lending me that glorious book
Erewhon ? " However, I send you his letter, for his raptures are
quite lyrical. I did as he requested about the R.A. catalogue and
actually went on Monday, though I have not a new bonnet, and
scarcely dare look my friends in the face when my old one is on
my head. I tell you this because I made the sacrifice not for
him but for Erewhon. Such devotion is of a kind not often met
with, and I don't expect you will ever appreciate the magnitude
of my sacrifice ; for as the Working Man said the other night at
the Suffrage Meeting in the Hall of Eleusis : "The depths of a
woman's feelings can only be fathomed by a woman herself"
(which, if not a very good reason for giving women votes, is at
all events the best I have heard). However, as you are going to
be a great novelist you will have to begin the fathoming process
as soon as possible, and it would not be a bad exercise for you
to try and fathom my feelings under the circumstances I have
described. . . .
      I must conclude ; not because I want to leave off, but because
I am bent upon making you grateful to me, as I want to ask
you a great favour. But I shall wait till sufficient gratitude is
accumulated in your heart for that.—Yours truly,
                                                           E. M. A. Savage.
      As nothing is so dreadful as an unexplained threat, and for
    1 This refers to the lady who said her prayers when she thought the children were
awake and did not say them when she thought they were asleep, introduced by Butler
into the Memoir of John Pickard Owen. It would be more correct to say that he
took the anecdote from Miss Savage than that she gave it to him. See his letter July
 1872, ante, p. 163.
       VOL. I                                                               O

        194                    Odd SCRAPS                          x1
  1873 fear you should be nervous, I just tell you that the favour I
Aet. 37 mean to ask some day is to let me lend my Fair Haven to Mrs.
        Gelstone.
            This is not the end of this " monstrous long letter,"
        as Uncle James would have called it ; there is another
        scrap of paper with some criticism of a novel by Henry
        Kingsley. Miss Savage's letters were frequently written
        on odd scraps of paper ; and if Butler had not dated the
        different pieces it would have been sometimes impossible
        to say which of them, and how many, came in the same
        envelope.

                      CHAPTER XII
                          1873—Part II
           "O, SPECULATION! HORRID FIEND"
By this time Butler had received his money from New 1873
Zealand, and the problem was how to invest it safely in Aet. 37
England. Four-and-a-half or five per cent on £8000,
with what he hoped to make by painting and writing,
would be enough ; and, had it been only himself, more
than enough. But there was Pauli who must be provided
for until he was able to keep himself, and how long this
might be Butler could not judge ; for he had failed in
his attempt to ascertain how long Pauli was likely to con
tinue to want assistance. He used to say that Pauli was
possessed by a dumb devil.
    The wrongness of Pauli's silence wounded me. I told him
that I thought it wrong, but he said he would tell me if he could
—it was so difficult to say exactly what he was earning—people
did not pay him, etc. and I, still believing him to be much as I
was myself in the matter of good faith, accepted his excuses, and
made no doubt that if he had been able to ease me off he would
have done so.
    Butler had sold a few pictures from the Academy,
and saw no reason why he should not get on as his
fellow-students were doing ; moreover the reception of
Erewhon encouraged him to hope that he might soon be
able to increase his income by writing as well as by paint
ing. He talked the situation over with Henry Hoare,
who laughed at the idea of being content with 4^ or 5
per cent, assuring him that much more could be made by
                                '95

        196                HOARE'S COMPANIES                            x„
  1873 investing his money in various companies he was then
Aet. 37 starting.
             There was a patent steam-engine company ; a patent gas-
        meter company ; a company for pressingjute in India ; and one for
        making extract from hemlock bark in Canada, which was to pay
        at least 60 0/ and revolutionise the leather trade. Pauli, who was
        a barrister, and Jason Smith, another barrister [a college friend],
        were infatuated with this last as much as I was ; and Pauli
        borrowed what little money he could on a reversion due to him
        on the death of his father and mother. This reversion was
        already pledged to myself, indeed I had advanced him more than
        its whole amount ; but so confident were we all, that I released
        his reversion that he might borrow ^1000 and invest it in the
        Canada Tanning Extract Company, Limited, of which Hoare
        made both Pauli and myself directors. I can plead no excuse for
        any of us but the confidence that Hoare's Bank would not
        countenance any such schemes without having had the best
        advice concerning them. . . . No one was morally very guilty,
        and I should not say anything about it unless it were necessary.
        [1901 S. B.]
              If the Whitehall land, or, supposing it to have been sold
        to the governing body of the Schools, its equivalent in
        money, had been resettled in the way Butler wished, so as
        to give him an absolute reversion, there can be little doubt
        that he would have mortgaged that reversion, added the
        money so raised to his New Zealand money, and put it
        all together into Hoare's companies. So that his father's
        action, though he considered it against his interest at the
        time, had results which, in the end, operated to his
        advantage.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
             13 May 1873—You W'H ^nc^ p'enty of amusement in your
        new occupation. Inventors are an odd race, judging from the
        one or two that I have seen. I daresay you will be ruined ;
        but then, you know, experience cannot be bought too dearly.
         Besides, who knows but you may be drawn to Christianity 1n
        the hour of your affliction and poverty (v. The Fair Haven) and
         may come to see the genuineness or Matthew's gospel and to
         appreciate the parable of Dives and Lazarus ; and The Rock would
         say that that would be cheap at the price. But then, on the
         other hand, you may become rich, very rich, a millionaire, a great
         capitalist and be knighted for having made a gigantic fortune

 x11                  THE POSITIVISTS                            197
 with your patent steam-engine. Well ! I have no objection. I 1873
should like to know a Rich Man ; but while you are making Aet. 37
 yoursefr rich you will be doing nothing for me—I mean you will
 not be writing books that delight me more than anything else.
 So, on the whole, I think I would rather you were not rich. . . .
     Another descendant of Cromwell has turned up [at the club]
 and she is a most offensive person. Fancy ! she presumed to say
 that the members ought not to drink beer or wine ! Of all the
 characters in the whole range of history, from the creation of the
 world to the present time, Cromwell is to me the most detestable.
 Perhaps in prehistoric times among the gorillas there may have
 been some as bad, but let us hope not. . . .
     Talking of descendants, I have had a little alarm to-day ;
 we have been applied to by a certain Samuel Redgrave, who is
 making a Biographical Dictionary, for particulars concerning my
 grandfather ; and I was led to look in the catalogue of the British
 Museum, and there I found two whole pages devoted to the
 biography of a certain Thomas Savage who murdered his master's
 maidservant. I have been feeling very murderous, particularly
 towards our maidservants, which is probably a family characteristic.
 I daresay Thomas is an uncle a few degrees removed. This is
 the more likely as I never heard of any of our family being called
 Thomas. . . .
     Good-bye, Dives, and good luck to your companies.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
                                              22 Beaumont St., W.
                                                 May 19/A, 1873.
     Dear Mr. Butler ... I was disappointed at the Positivists
last night. No worship or ceremony at all—something like a
Mechanics' Institution, only more dismal and joyless. The male
Positivists are, to put it mildly, very plain ; the females were
such frights and so hideously dressed that Mrs. Gelstone and I
decided that in common kindnesss to them we ought not to go
there again. The males might leave the positive and take to
making comparisons, which, modesty apart, could not fail to be
fatal to the other females.
     At the top of the room there is written up an injunction
that we are to live for others. St. Paul is the favourite hero with
the sect ; there are three portraits of him on the walls ; all the
other great men have only one. The lecture was good but dull ;
the lecturer was tall and handsome, and is the first Englishman
whom I have heard pronounce the French names Guizot and
Broglie properly (Gwizot and Bry, in case you don't know).
The audience were emotionless and solemn ; judging from slight

        198                  HOARE'S PARTY                                  x»
  1873 indications I should say that the working-man is the object of
Aet. 37 their supreme adoration, and that the present ministry figure in
        their imagination as a sort of substitute for the devil. Thfre was
        a notice on the wall inviting the faithful to pay subscriptions of
        not less than three shillings a year to the "Sacerdotal Fund."
        There was also a calendar on the wall. Moses gives his name
        to the first month and Frederick the Great to the eleventh. I
        think that's all. Good-bye. Thanks for your visit yesterday ;
        it did me good. . .
            I am feeling cross and worried and ill, but I hope to go to
        Brighton next week for a few days. My mother has just come
        back from Chislehurst. My aunt has a passion for having all
        the doors and all the windows of the house always open. You
        can imagine how pleasant that is with this biting north-east
        wind. IVe don't make our visits too long there. My aunt has
        always a cold or neuralgia or rheumatism—sometimes all at once
        —but they are caused by anything except draughts. As for me
        I get bored there, although my aunt is extremely sharp and
        clever. Her dog, Prince, is the be-all and end-all of her affections,
        and one has always to be bowing down and worshipping him.
        I take my revenge by telling her anecdotes of my cat, which
        bore her. But I am boring you, which I don't want to do ; so
        no more.—Yours very truly,                     E. M. A. Savage.
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
             [About May 20th, 1873]—I have been painting all day. I
        paint very badly and am beginning to fear that between two
        stools, etc.—and yet I don't know. [If I had had any sense I
        might, at any rate, have guessed.—Aug. 8th 1901. S. fi.]
             I went to an evening party at Hoare's the other night and
        stood for an hour cheek by jowl with the Archbishop of York
        (Thomson) and the Bishop of Bath and Wells ; but neither of
        them knew who I was. Mrs. Charles Hoare is delighted with
         The Fair Haven and says that Henry Hoare "ought to read it."
        She is going to show it to the Bishop. . . .
             You say the Positivists were ugly. You should have seen
        the people at Hoare's the other night. They were hideous,
        but there were all sorts of great guns among them. I think
        clever people always are ugly.
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
                                                   [About June 3 or 4, 1873.]
             My dear Mr. Butler—Your little study in the R.A. is
        lovely . . .

 x11                   AUNT BATHER                              199
      I return the letter from your synthetic friend. [This refers 1873
 to a letter written to me by the late Rev. Archer Gurney re Aet. 37
  The Fair Haven. He pricked my conscience by taking the
 book au se'rieux and expressing warm sympathy with many of
 the writer's views ; he wrote so nicely and kindly, that, for fear
 I should show the letter about, I tore it up as soon as I had got
 it back from Miss Savage.—S. B. 8 Aug. 1901.] It is lovely, so
 artless ! I hope you will read his words of faith and cheer, and
 please lend the book to me. Have you answered the letter ?
 What could you say ? I am afraid whatever you did say would
 take the bloom oft the peach of his sympathetic admiration.
 What a horrible handwriting ! If, instead of wasting his time
 trying to find out whether his mind is analytic or synthetic, he
 had tried to improve his handwriting, it would be better for his
 correspondents.
     He is not the only one completely deceived by the book. Mr.
 Ainger, the Reader of the Temple, sent it to a friend of a
 friend of mine whom he wished to convert.—Yours sincerely,
                                               E. M. A. Savage.
      Miss Savage was staying with her friends the Bertrams
 in Adelaide Road, and wrote to Butler, 24 June 1873 :
     I wish you could come and see me, and that you would if you
could. Come and have tea with the dear old Granny and me.
She has a great affection for you as the nephew of her old
schoolfellow. [My aunt, Mrs. Bather, a very nice woman : see
her charming letters in my Life of Dr. Butler.— 1901 S. B.] She
 did not like your other aunt I am sure, for, though I put rather
insidious questions to her, all she says is, " She was good-looking
and afterwards she married Mr. Lloyd ;" whereas if she had liked
her she would have talked about her for an hour.
     [From a letter of mine, dated June 25, I see that I said I
would go and have tea with her at Beaumont Street on the
following Sunday, but would not go to Adelaide Road. I am
sorry, chiefly because it now pains me to have refused Miss
Savage anything that would have been a pleasure to her ; but also,
to a less extent, because I should like to have heard more about
my aunt, Mrs. Bather. I remember her as a kind good soul—as
much so as any woman who ever lived—but I had no idea how
charming a personality she was till I came to read her letters
many a long year later than 1873. My letter to Miss Savage
wound up ... "I am getting very much interested with my
novel " i.e. Ernest Pontifex—shortly to be rewritten.—S. B. Aug.
10th 1901.]

        2oo                           RICH DIVES                                   xn
                                 Miss Savage to Butler.
  187-       14 July 1873—I send you a little bouquet of leaves from my
Aet. 37 note book and other religious scraps. I don't think they can be
        of use to you, but the two miraculous conversions may amuse
        you. The prayer is a confidential document distributed among
        the congregation of All Saints to be used secretly. I stole it from
        one of the faithful for you. I send you the two verses : 1
                           As it fell out upon a day
                           Rich Dives sickened and died ;
                           There came two serpents out of Hell
                           His soul therein to guide.
                           Rise up, rise up, Brother Dives,
                           And come along with me ;
                           There's a place in Hell prepared for you
                           To sit upon a serpent's knee—
        because you are to be a rich man, you know, and it may interest
        you to hear exactly what will become of you. The information
        in Scripture is less explicit. Besides, considered Darwiniacally,
        the verses are interesting. . . .
             Of course I shall like the novel if you like it. I am jealous
        horribly of Mr. Gogin and Mr. M'Culloch who know all about
        it already. . . .
             In the course of the summer, Butler, who never could
        keep a secret on any subject that interested him, found
        that so many people had now come to know he was the
        author of The Fair Haven that it seemed better to issue
        a new edition disclosing his name. For this second
        edition he wrote a preface reproducing some of the
        remarks made by The Rock, which was so pleased with
        the book that it departed from its custom of reviewing
        with brevity works entrusted to it, and devoted two
        articles to The Fair Haven. The following is an extract
        from one of the articles :
             Mr. Owen's exposition and refutation of the hallucination
        and mythical theories of Strauss and his followers is most admir
        able, and all should read it who desire to know exactly what
        excuses men make for their incredulity. The work also contains
         many beautiful passages on the discomfort of unbelief and the holy
         pleasure of a settled faith which cannot fail to benefit the reader.
                   1 The other enclosures are, unfortunately, not with the papers.

xn                  THE NOVEL BEGUN                             201
     The Scotsman spoke of the writer as being " throughout 1873
in downright, almost pathetic earnest ;" which was perfectly Aet. 37
true, though not in the sense intended by The Scotsman.
     Some of his readers, however, had understood his
meaning ; the preface as finally settled quotes from a
pamphlet, Jesus versus Christianity :
    If the reader can once fully grasp the intention of the style
and its affectation of the tone of indignant orthodoxy, and
perceive also how utterly destructive are its " candid admissions "
to the whole fabric of supernaturalism, he will enjoy a rare treat.
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
     16 Aug. 1873—I send you the first 15 pp. of the novel [The
Way of All Flesh'] and will send as many more in about a week.
I see my main purpose and plot quite clearly, but am in a good
deal of fog as regards detail. However, it will all clear itself up.
I have given up my music [practising the piano], and write an
hour in the evenings instead. I am painting an "important"
picture. A man mending old Heatherley's skeleton and a child
looking on—background, all the pots and pans and knicknacks
in the corner opposite the washing-stand, with the Discobolus and
half the Ilyssus. I think it will come very well, but I am only
just beginning it. Old Tom can't make it out. Please at your
leisure return the pamphlet Jesus v. Christianity. I send you a
rough idea for a preface to the second edition of The Fair Haven,
but I fear it is too hot.
     The " important " picture was originally called
" Tinkering a Skeleton ; " it underwent a good many
changes before it was exhibited in the Royal Academy
exhibition of 1874 as " Mr. Heatherley's Holiday." The
school skeleton was always getting knocked about, and no
wonder ; the students used to dress it up in the costumes
and dance with it. Mr. Heatherley never went away for
a holiday ; he employed the time at home repairing the
skeleton, and Butler's picture ultimately became a portrait
of him so engaged.
     Mr. Heatherley disliked the country ; he much
preferred London. Once when he had to go into the
country on business he was obliged to sleep out of town ;
on his return one of the students asked him how he had

        202                SORTES VIRGILIANAE                                 x1.
  1873 liked it, saying that no doubt he felt refreshed by sleeping
Aet. 37 in country air.
              " No," said old Heatherley, " country air has no body
        in it."
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
                                                      [Probably Aug. 18, 1873.]
             My dear Mr. Butler—"Never have I been so calm, so
        soothed, so happy, so filled with a blessed peace" etc. as this
        morning when the first instalment of your novel came. I was
        delighted to have it and still more delighted to read it, and I am
        delighted that you should have written it and not anybody else.
        If it goes on as it begins, it will be a perfect novel or as nearly so
        as may be.
             [Then followed some very sensible criticism, all of which I
        very gratefully attended to.—1901, S. B.]
             I send the tract [Jesus v. Christianity]. Is it not funny that
        these men should see through the argumentative chapters [of The
        Fair Haven] but not through the Christ-Ideal chapter ?—but
        perhaps it was wilful. It is not very entertaining, but I read it
        all through. I can't say I understand what it is about, and I feel
        no more inclined to worship "The Verifiable Everywhere" than
        I did, in my young days, to worship God Almighty. In fact, I
        prefer the latter, as there was more to be got out of him than
        there is out of the Everywhere.—Yours very truly,
                                                         E. M. A. Savage.
             [The following to a lady, a member of Miss Savage's club,
        was sent me by mistake, but Miss Savage gave me leave to keep
        it.—S. B. 1901.]
             I thank you very much for the books. The Lundis are
        delightful, but I tied up the Virgil and redirected it to you. I
        know nothing whatever about Virgil, so why read 500 pages of
        criticism about him ? Montaigne I know, and Renan I know, and
        Flaubert, and Bossuet, and La Belle Cavaliere, and Madame de
        Bou fliers, and my mind concerning most of them is tolerably well
        settled, therefore I shall enjoy Sainte Beuve ; but Virgil is quite a
        different thing. Besides Sainte Beuve didn't mean me to read it or
        he would have translated the quotations.
             I should have come round to see you last night, but it was 8
        o'clock when I got to the club. My feelings bade me go, but my
        body, which was very tired, wanted me to stay ; so at last, to put
        an end to the debate, I referred to Virgil to decide the point, and,
        opening the book at random, my eye lighted on "levat ipse
        tridentem," which clearly signified supper. So I called down the

x11                         PYRAMIDS                               203
tube to them to take their three-pronged fork and make me some 1873
buttered toast.                                                         Aet. 37
                       Miss Savage to Butler.
     30 Aug. 1873 — I have just found a letter written to you
last Friday week which should have gone to you with the MS.
I suppose, with the usual perversity of " things," it hid itself. I
am glad it was not the MS. that took that freak ; but you have, I
daresay, a much greater controlling influence than I have, and,
though away from you, your property behaves better than mine.
Well, you have not had much of a loss ; but you must have thought
me rude. I hope you will forgive me, but indeed it was not my
fault.
     When am I to have more MS. ? You said in about a week ;
it is now a fortnight. I read the novel two more times—once to
find fault and once for complete enjoyment. As far as it goes it
is perfect (at least it is so to my mind) and if you go on as you
 have begun (and I daresay you will) it will be a beautiful book.
 Of course, one of the grandsons is to resemble old Pontifex—it is
 very clever of you to suggest the hero's character by minutely
 describing the grandfather ; it will save the ticketing and labelling
 that novelists are given to and that bore one so dreadfully ; and
 then the characters are so perverse, in spite of all the ticketing and
 labelling they manage to make themselves out as something quite
 different. Is the slight discrepancy in the dates accidental ?
     I like the preface also [the " rough idea " for a preface to the
new edition of The Fair Haven} ; but it does not seem to me to
attain quite to the perfection we expect from you—however, as,
 though I read it carefully two or three times, I couldn't lay my
 finger on anything, I came to the conclusion that the fault was
 in myself.
     Even if you never finished the novel you might make a very
 nice finished sketch for a magazine of the part you sent me. I am
 glad to hear that you are painting a picture. I wish I could see it.
 I am going one day to give you some more painting rags—they
 only want tearing up ; but I have been so much disinclined to
 exertion this last week or two that I think I must have a tumour
 in my brain. I have been reading Maudsley, and he says that
 people who have a tumour in the brain are disinclined to exertion ;
 their intellects remain as clear as ever, and the only symptom is
 what their friends call laziness ; but Maudsley says that when
 they are dead (they always die in the most unexpected manner)
and their brains taken out and " the hemispheres sliced " and a
 tumour found at the " base of the pyramids," then the friends are
 very sorry for their unkindness (I daresay they are not ; but of
 course they say so to Maudsley). If there is a tumour at the

          404            CRITICISM OF THE NOVEL                                xn
  1873 base of my pyramids I believe it is the accumulation of hard
Aet. 37 words that Maudsley uses, and that I can't understand, and which
          have been haunting about my brain for the last three weeks. I
          have been thinking of sending to you for explanation, for I am
         sure they must be Erewhonian as they have no analogy to any
          known language.
              Many thanks for promising to aslc Mr. Hoare for the votes.
         No : he did not give a vote before ; it was your father who gave
         one for a clergyman's orphan. Apropos of clergymen, I send you
         a little extract ' which would be useful for a heading of a chapter
         in your biography, which will have to be written, even if, as I
         wish could be the case, you were to live for ever. I have some
          more delicious bits, but on account of the state of the pyramids
         in my brain I cannot exert myself to write them out neatly for
         you. Don't trouble about the autographs— I don't care enough
         about the people who want them to bother either myself or any
          body else. Good-bye : this letter is nearly as long and quite as
          tiresome as the one I have just been thinking you were so lucky
         to escape having. I hope you are very well. Some day perhaps
          I may have the pleasure of seeing you again. I have been away
         from home the last few Sundays, or I would have tried to have
          that pleasure.
                                 Miss Savage to Butler.
              3 Sept. 1873—This chapter is quite as delightful as the first,
       [ though in a different way of course. I like it, I think, the best
         of the two, but you must soigner the composition a little more—
         near about the middle there is quite a constellation of sentences
         beginning " but " and " yet " which, coming one after the other,
         are not pretty ; and on the page that you have numbered 7 there
         is a sentence which is, to say the least, clumsy. . . .
              And I don't like "reflex reflection." I think you have been
         caught by the jingle of the words ; would not " reflex thought "
         mean the same thing, and sound better ? Or do you mean
         "reflex reflection " for a "sotiltee" (as the cookery book I have
         been studying calls complicated and curious dishes), which my
         brain is too dull to penetrate ?
              And leave off writing as soon as you are tired ; it is when we
         are tired, and thus enfeebled, that the wee bit of exaggeration
         (such as, on reading your MS. again, you will see I have pencilled)
         becomes too strong for us.
              Is the narrator of the story to be an impartial historian or
         a special pleader ? The inconvenience of special pleading in a
                        1 This extract is, unfortunately, not with the papers.

xn             CRITICISM OF THE NOVEL                          205
story is that one's sympathies are apt to go over to the other ' 187J
side. One's sympathies do not go over to Pontifex as yet, but Aet. 37
there might be danger later on. You (I mean the teller of the
story) are too severe upon people who say "if I were you."
When people say that, they only mean " if 1 were in your place,
surrounded by the same circumstances, but with my own physique,
moral, and intellect." I don't think people ever mean anything
else, but I don't object to your saying this in a story ; it is
not in reference to the MS. that I have remarked upon it, so
I don't think I need have said anything about it ; and as I am
giving way to unnecessary remarks, I will say good-bye.
                        Miss Savage to Butler.
     9 Sept. 1873—I do not think you have specially pleaded as
yet. Of course you must have a personality, and a decided one,
or you would choose some other form for your story. If the
narrator is one of the dramatis personae he is bound to give his
own version of the story ; I am sure that you will be easily able
 to show that he in no wise distorts facts or motives. Thus the
 faintest hint that you have not been one of Fortune's victims
would prove fast enough that you are speaking generally in the
 Fortune passage [The Way of all Flesh, chapter v.).
     I think you must also remember that, though you adopt
 pretty much your own character and speak your own feelings
and convictions, yet that you have chosen the disguise of an old
 man of seventy-three, and must speak and act as such. An old
 man of seventy-three would scarcely talk as you do, unless he
 were constantly in your company, and were a very docile old
 man indeed—and I don't think the old man who is telling the
 story is at all docile. . . .
     Please excuse this long letter. I can only say I did not mean
 it—it is the result of a reflex action of the muscles over which
 I have no control. I must also ask you to excuse these scraps of
 paper to which my poverty, but not my will, consents—I have no
 more. This is my last scrap, so you will have no more letters
 from me yet awhile. With this piece of good news I say
 farewell.
                        Miss Savage to Butler.
     [About October 1 873]—We want to establish a club on a
 self-supporting system and have shares. We have had some
 nibbles from co-operative managers, but of course cannot settle
 anything till we know what this club is going to do. If we do
 have a company you shall be one of the directors as you seem so

        206              MOLIERE'S HOUSEMAID                              x.1
  1873 fond of the sort of thing. It will probably cost you a trifle like
Aet. 37 a hundred a year or so ; but you will be having so many other
        sources of wealth that you won't mind that. We will cook our
        food on the plan of your new steam-engine, and economise fuel by
        having the fire in the middle of the boiler.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
            3 Nov. 1873—I saw yesterday in The Times that His Grace
        the Archbishop would pontificate and preach to-night in Islington ;
        and I suppose there he is pontificating at this very moment.
        What is to pontificate ? I appeal to you for information. As you
        are the historian of all the Pontifexes—to say nothing of your
        being a successor of the Apostles once removed—I should think
        you would be able to tell me. If you can't, I shall write to His
        Grace the Archbishop himself, and enclose a halfpenny postcard
        for a reply. If Mrs. Gelstone were in London she would march
        straight off to Islington, and find out ; but I have not half energy
        enough for such an enterprise. I like better to trouble you. I
        am not asking out of mere idle curiosity, but because I have
        sixpence at stake ; so please forgive yours very truly.
             The next letter from Miss Savage was evidently
        written in reply to one from Butler sending her a sample
        chapter or so in which he had adopted another manner,
        no doubt in consequence of her criticisms. This other
        manner, I gather, would have abolished Edward Overton,
        who tells the story, and all his personal reminiscences.
        Miss Savage was to say which she preferred.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
             10 Nov. 1873—The most embarrassing thing in the world
        is the embarrassment of riches. Why will you embarrass me so ?
        I shall be obliged soon to give up being your Moliere's housemaid
        if you don't become less versatile. I like what you sent me on
        Monday immensely. It is very clever, and I know you would be
        able to carry it on through a long book most successfully—but it
        would be a tremendous tour de force. Upon the whole I think I
        like the direct method best. We should all be astonished by your
        genius if you used the indirect method, but I think we should like
        the book better if you used the- direct way. (I speak for myself
        and the other housemaids, not for the creme de la' creme of
        intellectual society.) In this chapter, too, the special pleading is

x11                         DODGING                              207
quite apparent though the pleader is more of an abstraction. But 1873
I prefer an advocate of flesh and blood. Especially if he is to be Aet. 37
an actor in the story. Then, if you used this way, you would
have to modify greatly, or perhaps sacrifice, the beautiful first
chapter ; and that would grieve me dreadfully. There is no reason
why the narrator of the story (you have never told me his name)
should not occasionally indulge in irony. He could do so very
effectively from time to time. So, really, I think you could com
bine the advantages of both ways. Is that what you mean by
"dodging" ? If so, by all means dodge. What I mean is that
he should be like a man who, when he does not find his ordinary
tool sharp enough for the occasion, takes up a keener one for the
moment. I don't think by the (direct way you will necessarily
turn the reader's sympathies into the wrong channel. That is the
danger of special pleading, and, as I said before, there is as much
(more perhaps) of special pleading in this chapter as in the others
—at least to those who see through it ; and in a novel it will
scarcely be a gain that simple and literal-minded people should be
taken 1n. A novel is not a book like The Fair Haven. As
regards the hero, if his first appearance is in this chapter, he is
scarcely introduced to us favourably ; he does not quite make a
good impression. There are some delicious bits. What the
young people fail to see is good, and so is the concluding bit about
the church.
    Please forgive me for not writing before. As you are not a
Christian perhaps you will. I was going out to dinner on
Monday and was busy with my toilette. About two months ago
I sold all my clothes (except what I stood upright in) and the
consequence thereof is that when I do go out I have to work like
half a dozen seamstresses. [I will undertake to say she sold her
clothes to help some poor friend who was in difficulties.—1901
S. B.] I did not come home till Tuesday night, and yesterday and
to-day have both been very busy ones. I spent the whole of
yesterday afternoon in playing bezique with an old lady who came
to spend the day. I was obliged to go to the club on important
business in the evening, but when I got there I was so tired that
I was incapable of writing to you then.
    I met Mr. Heatherley last Monday. He told me about your
picture. Are you going to keep it for the R.A. or are you going
to send it to the B.A. ? I hope you are better than when I saw
you last.—Yours very truly,                    E. M. A. Savage.
    P.S.—Do you know, I don't think the last time or two I have
seen you that you seemed so happy as you used to be. I am
afraid your relations with your family trouble you more than you
choose to allow, or what is it ? [No doubt by this time I was

         208                 ALETHEA'S EYES                              x«
  1873 waking up to the fact that Hoare's companies, which were to
Aet. 37 make our fortunes, would be more likely to do what they in fact
        did.— 1901 S. B.]
            P.S.—Agreeable is spelt with two e's : I mention this because
        you never will put more than one.
             I saw in a shop window the other day an Alpine book written
         by Rev. Leslie Stephen. Is that your Mr. Leslie Stephen ?
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
            24 Nov. 1873 — I do not mind Alethea having blue eyes
        much, as she is not the heroine ; but I like people with dark eyes
        best. Best of all pale hazel, clear and bright—warmed by golden
        specks. I saw a beautiful Jewess with just such eyes about two
        months ago. Her hair was a beautiful red, but harsh in texture
        and wanting gloss, and the lower part of her face was decidedly
        coarse ; but her eyes and nose and the setting of her eyes were
        seraphic.
            However, in your first novel you should not try to make your
        people interesting by anything unusual in their personal appear
        ance. In your fourth or fifth novel you may give us a heroine
        with golden eyes. I can wait for her. . . .
            P.S.—I shall come to-morrow at half-past five, but not
        punctually. I am not a punctual person, thank heaven ! and I
        wish nobody else was. Ah ! I could tell you a pitiful story of
        my sufferings last Friday in consequence of the vicious desire that
        some people have " to be in time," as they complacently call it.
        But I won't lacerate your feelings, as I know you have a tender
        heart that bleeds for others' woes. However I did get a feverish
        attack, and could hardly hold my head up. I am better to-day.
        To-morrow I shall be quite well. . . .
             Alethea Pontifex in The Way of all Flesh is drawn
      I from Miss Savage—not as to her personal appearance, and
        in other respects not precisely as she actually was, but as
        Butler thought she might have been, had she been placed
        in Alethea's circumstances. Nearly all the things given
        to Alethea were said by Miss Savage ; and when he gave
        her things said by other people, he did so because he
        thought they were in Miss Savage's manner. But, beyond
        her mere sayings, the description of a cheerful, humorous,
        sensible woman of the world is as true a description of
        Miss Savage as he could make.
             Mr. (afterwards Sir) Leslie Stephen was ordained

 x.1                      LESLIE STEPHEN                                       209
 in 1855, and was fellow and tutor of Trinity Hall, 1873
 Cambridge. In 1864 he left Cambridge for London, Aet. 38
 where he engaged in literary pursuits, and we hear no
 more of him as a clergyman. In 1873 ne published Free-
 thinking and Plain-speaking, and in a letter to Charles
 Eliot Norton, 29th December 1873, about this book
 wrote : " Our friend Butler (of The Fair Haven) wrote a
review for The Examiner. They told him to be reticent,
 and yet when he * reticed ' (or whatever the word should
 be) they still protected themselves by publishing his name
contrary to his request. As The Examiner is almost
 avowedly atheistical or Millite, this rather surprises me." *
 In 1888 Butler made this note :
     I never write reviews ; it is much easier to write a book than
to review one, so I have drifted into the ranks of the reviewed,
not of the reviewers. I have only written two little colourless
reviews in the whole course of my literary life ; both were
innocence itself; one of Mr. Leslie Stephen's essays some dozen
or more years ago in The Examiner ; the other of a philosophical
work by Rosmini whose very title I have forgotten. I am sorry
 I have done even this much, and will never write another review j
unless, of course, I get a chance of giving some kind of undue
preference to a personal friend.
      I have read Butler's review in The Examiner and it is,
as he says, " innocence itself." The line taken is that,
whether or not we agree with the author, the significance
of the book is in the fact that it should have been written
by Leslie Stephen, a man "sufficiently well known to
make it notorious that he is not one to outrage public
feeling." The review concludes, " If it does not greatly
enlarge the domain of human thought, it assuredly extends
the boundaries of one that is hardly less important—
licensed utterance."
     About the end of December 1873, Buder wrote to
von Haast with a copy of The Fair Haven. " It is more
subtle than Erewhon, but not so entertaining. I find such
men as Darwin like it the best of the two books, but the
general public prefer Erewhon. The book I have now on
   1 The Life and Letter! ef Leslie Stephen, by Frederic William Maitland (London 1
Duckworth Ic Co. 1906), p. 238.
    VOL. I                                                                P

        210                    BUSINESS                         xn
  1873 hand will be purely entertaining—or rather is intended to
Aet. 3* be so."
            Besides writing The Way of All Flesh, Butler was also
   t    much occupied in attending meetings in the city and
        looking after his and Pauli's interests in Hoare's new
        companies. When Pauli came over from Lincoln's Inn
        to lunch at Butler's one o'clock dinner in Clifford's Inn,
        they must have had plenty to talk about in these days.
        Painting, I suppose, was put rather into the background,
        with the piano-playing, after December 1873, about which
        time " Mr. Heatherley's Holiday " was finished.


' - ---
        Cartvrx.s 3flfn.X S6in .



                        CHAPTER XIII
                              1874-1875
       "MR. HEATHERLEY'S HOLIDAY" AND CANADA
In March 1874 came the failure of Henry Hoare, and 1874
Butler found himself with most of his money gone and Aet. 38
Pauli to support. He wrote telling Miss Savage about
it : " He thought he could treble his income : fancy
wanting to treble £40,000 a year ! Don't show this
letter to anyone."
      The note on the following letter shows that Butler
wrote more than once to Miss Savage about Henry
Hoare's failure, but he did not keep all the letters ; prob
ably at first he only told her the bare fact and afterwards
gave particulars.
                                            22 Beaumont Street, W.
      Thursday [March 20th 1874— In answer to one from me
which I have destroyed.—Aug. 20th 1901. S. B.]
      My dear Mr. Butler— I don't think there is anybody
quite so good as you are. When I know someone who is I will
 tell you. No indeed, you did not write too harshly. Considering
 the moment and your fear and belief you wrote even indulgently.
 Thank you for writing to me so soon. If you knew how glad I
 was to have your letter you would be glad you did write so soon.
 But I am still grieved when I think that you will still be worried
 and interrupted and overworked by business matters, and I am not
 at all inclined not to think " harshly " of Mr. Hoare. However, I
 shall not say what I think to you. I saw Miss Johnson at the
 club to-day. She told me to ask you to tea on Monday. So I
 hope I shall see you. It will be a very great pleasure if I see you
 looking well. So please, dear Mr. Butler, be as well as well as
 you can.—Yours very truly,                      E. M. A. Savage.
                                   211

        212                   AN HONEST GOD                             *„,
  1874      [This letter was accompanied by a scrap that looks like half a
Aet. 38 side of a used foolscap envelope on which is written in pencil :]
            I am very good, too. I have never once thought of the
        Pontifexes till this minute. I am the most unselfish woman in
        the world.                                          E. M. A. S.
             One of the companies, The Canada Tanning Extract
        Company, had its headquarters in Canada ; and some
        hope of saving part of the money invested in it was still
        possible. Butler and Pauli had both been made directors
        and Butler was deputed by the Board to go to Canada
        and investigate matters on the spot. Before going he
        had the pleasure of seeing " Mr. Heatherley's Holiday "
        hung on the line in the Royal Academy Exhibition. On
        the 10th of June he embarked in the Prussian for
        Montreal. Miss Savage wrote, " Remember I am the
        most untravelled person within these realms, and a
        voyage to Canada appears tremendous to me. My
        notions of Canada are as vague as Stopford Brooke's
        ¦ aspirations ' ; but I am very glad to hear that you are to
        have such a grand holiday."
             After Butler's death I had some correspondence about
        him with Mr. Justice Wills, who never met Butler but was
        an admirer of his books. The judge, in one of his letters,
        20th February 1903, wrote: "My friend Mr. Phipson
        Beale told me that he went out to America on the same
        steamer with Mr. Butler, and that on a lovely moonlight
        evening they were gazing over the Atlantic—a long time
        silent—when Mr. Butler turned to him and said : ' Yes,
        Beale—yes, an honest God's the noblest work of man.'
        Singularly characteristic."
             Butler was interested to find himself in a new country ;
        in the intervals of looking after the business of the
        Company he made excursions to see the neighbourhood—
        and even went for a few days to visit Niagara, returning
        by steamer. He also wrote. His mind was occupied
        with the ideas which he afterwards stated in Life and
        Habit, as will appear from this extract from Unconscious
        Memory, ch. ii., " How I wrote Life and Habit" :
            The first passage in Life and Habit which I can date with

xm                   MONTREAL MOUNTAIN                                              213
certainty is the one on page 52 which runs as follows : "It is one 1874
against legion when a man tries to differ from his own past A*1. 38
selves. He must yield or die if he wants to differ widely, so as
to lack natural instincts, such as hunger or thirst, and not to
gratify them. It is more righteous in a man that he should eat
strange food, and that his cheek should so much as lank not, than
that he should starve if the strange food be at his command.1
His past selves are living in him at this moment with the "
accumulated life of centuries. 'Do this, this, this, which we,
too, have done and found our profit in it,' cry the souls of his
forefathers within him. Faint are the far ones, coming and
going as the sound of bells wafted to a high mountain ; loud and
clear are the near ones, urgent as an alarm of fire."
      This was written a few days after my arrival in Canada in
June 1874. I was on Montreal Mountain for the first time and
was struck with its extreme beauty. It was a magnificent
summer's evening ; the noble St. Lawrence flowed almost
immediately beneath, and the vast expanse of country beyond it
was suffused with a colour which even Italy cannot surpass.
Sitting down for a while I began making notes for Life and
Habit, of which I was then continually thinking, and had
written the first few lines of the above when the bells of Notre
Dame in Montreal began to ring, and their sound was carried to
and fro in a remarkably beautiful manner. I took advantage of
the incident to insert, then and there, the last lines of the piece
just quoted. I kept the whole passage with hardly any alteration
and am thus able to date it accurately.
                            Butler to Miss Savage.
                                             St. Lawrence Hall, Montreal.
     IO "July 1874—I am rapidly regaining health and hope to
be quite well again by my return in the last days of July. I have
got some really charming literary pabulum among the French
Canadians. I was not prepared to find myself so completely
in a French and not an English country. I am to stay with an
"habitant" to-morrow in order that I may go to mass on
Sunday and inspire the village with confidence in the Company.
Madame Vigneau has had so many lodgers since we started
                   1                               On the Alps
                      It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh,
                      Which some did die to look on : and all this—
                      It wounds thine honour that I speak it now—
                     Was borne so like a soldier, that thy check
                      So much as tanked not.
                                                     Antony & Cleopatra, I. 1v. 66.71 J
and ef. The Note.Booh of Samuel Butler, p. 30.

        214                    FIGHTING FRAUD                             »,.
  1874 that she has become quite rich ; and out of gratitude has had
Aet. 38 a four-dollar mass said for the Company. This is the best mass
        that money can buy in these parts ; the cheapest is 25 cents
        or one shilling ; the average is about half a dollar. I have
        instructed our agent to have an occasional mass said on our
        account, about six two-dollar masses a year for each set of works.
        This I am told will be about the right thing. There are bears
        and wolves and great caribou deer in our woods—as big as oxen,
        but I have not seen any. This trip is just what I wanted to set
        me up in health. I will write as soon as I come back.
             About July 17 he returned in the Polynesian to
        London, but only remained a few days to consult with
        the Board of the Company ; he left London again the
        5 th August and was in Canada until the end of May
        1875, "fighting fraud of every kind to the best of my
        ability."
                               Butler to Miss Savage.
             2 Aug. 1874—I leave again at once for America. I am in
        a bad way. Cannot help it. Must do the best I can. This
        comes of knowing rich bankers. You have been a good, kind
        friend to me, and I thank you—poor requital for your patience
        under all the boredom I have inflicted on you, but there ! My
        position is not desperate ; that is all I can say. I am to take
        complete control over the whole thing ; if I fail I return in
        a few months penniless ; if I succeed I am all right, but shall
        have to stay a long time. I am much better in health and my
        life in America will, I doubt not, do me a great deal of good.
         If I fail I shall have to write novels for my bread. I will too.
             I shall write in America, if I find I have any spare time,
        and prepare for a rainy day. Yes, my novel will at last go
        ahead ; but it must be quite innocent, for I am now reconciled to
         my father and must be careful not to go beyond scepticism of
         the mildest kind. I shall have to change the scheme but shall
         try to keep the earlier chapters. No, I will not be didactic—
        at least I will watch and pray that I may not be so ; but being
        didactic is a sin that doth most easily beset me. I will write
        from America and send my address. It is all I shall do to get
        away by Wednesday ; but if you are able to come and bid me
        good-bye, say, from 5.30 to 6 tomorrow, Monday, please do so.

 xn1               BUYING BACK SHARES                           215
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
     Montreal- 11 Sept. 1874—I arrived here about three 1874
 weeks ago, not feeling too well or comfortable ; I have been Aet. 38
 mending ever since and am now very well. I think I shall pull
 this Company through and recover my money. I cannot speak
 positively, but, at any rate, I have a free hand. . . .
     I go to bed early and get up early. I am much better than
 I was three months ago and am sure to get better and better as
 I did in New Zealand. A year or two here will do me no harm
 and will be a cheap price to pay if I can save the Company and
return to a modest competence again as before all these companies
were started.
     The water-melons here are very good. There are some
good pears, too, but too expensive—and, after all, fruit hardly
counts ; a country can only deserve credit for food that it has
known how to make nice by art. Fruit is no test of a country's
aptitude for cooking. I may get a little writing done, but very
little: the Co. requires all the energy and attention I can give
it, but, as I said, the work is interesting.
     There is a good high hill behind the town, some 700 or 800
feet high, with rocky ground and native forest. I never saw
so good a natural pleasure-ground to any city ; and the views
over the St. Lawrence and far away to the Adirondack mountains
are delightful. And the colour is splendid. I can get to the
best parts in an easy hour's walk and go to them almost every day
as soon as the office is closed. This is a great pleasure to me.
                       Miss Savage to Butler.
     15 Oct. 1874—I was very glad to hear that you were in
better health, but I fancy that you did not write in the best of
spirits. You insisted too much on your good luck, and that makes
me think that you were trying rather too much to make yourself
believe in it. However, whatever luck you may have, I think you
have rather more than your share. I thought so after that last
time I saw you and you told me what you had been doing—
buying back other people's shares in the Company. You have
great and varied talents, genius I should say, and you have so
much capacity for so many kinds of enjoyment. You were
born with a sweet temper, an unselfish disposition, and a natural
inclination to deal righteously with your fellow creatures [now
I doubt whether either Jones or Alfred would say that I had a
sweet temper ; of course / think I have — but neither I nor
poor, dear Miss Savage are competent judges.— 1901 S. B.] and

          216                   WILHELM MEISTER                             xm
  1874. power of mind enough to cultivate the inclination ; and yet you
Aet. 38 want to be rich. I call you a most unreasonable man. Let the
           poor, stupid, disagreeable people have the money (I think they
          very often do)—they want it, poor things ! When you get that
           modest competence you speak of I shall look upon you as defraud
           ing somebody or other.
                 " Alfred " is Alfred Emery Cathie, who came to
           Butler as clerk in 1887 on the death of his father. Both
           Alfred and I are ready to endorse what Miss Savage says
           here of his temper— but perhaps Butler would say that
           we are as incompetent judges as he or she.
                                  Butler to Miss Savage.
                Montreal. 6 Nov. 1874—Thank you for yours. I am
           still alive, but I have fallen among thieves. Well, I believe I
           may also truly say that the thieves have fallen among me. . . .
           I thinks still, that we shall pull through ; but the market is still
           unsatisfactory and it is on this that all depends.
        ,       I have been reading a translation of Wilhelm Meister. Is it
        1 good ? To me it seems perhaps the very worst book I ever read.
           No Englishman could have written such a book. I cannot
           remember a single good page or idea, and the priggishness is the
           finest of its kind that I can call to mind. Is it all a practical
           joke ? If it really is Goethe's Wilhelm Meister that I have been
           reading, I am glad I have never taken the trouble to learn
         I German. What a wretch Carlyle must be to run Goethe as he
           has done. . . .
                 I was rather pleased with myself the other day when an
           American in the train told me I spoke English with a strong
           London accent. I laughed my sweetest laugh, and said :
                 "Now, can you Americans mimic that accent ? "
                 "No," rejoined the other, "I can't say that I can exactly
           imitate it myself, but I have a son who can do it very nicely."
                 I again laughed my sweetest, and said : "Allow me to con
           gratulate you."
                 I also made rather a nice familiar misquotation : " I wish that
           he were dead, but he's no like to dee." It's an improvement, is
           it not ?
                                  Miss Savage to Butler.
                 3 Dec. 1874—I read Wilhelm Meister before I went into my
           teens and am happy to say that I quite agree with you in finding

xm         "PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL"                            217
it tiresome. I was quite as good a judge then as I am now—at 1875
least the. books I liked then I like now, and the books I didn't A<*. 39
like then I don't like now. To say the truth I didn't understand
what it was all about, and, as Goethe requires so much explanation,
it is quite possible that I may not understand now what he would
be after. You know, I don't like things with a depth of meaning
in them ; I like things that are obvious to the meanest intellects.
I shall not read Wtlhelm Mehter again.
      The more I have read about Goethe the more I dislike him.
 There is a meanness about him which is truly feminine. When
 he wanted to quarrel with Madame von Stein he brought up
 against her that she had persisted in drinking coffee too freely
 against his repeatedly expressed wish. Now why couldn't he
 quarrel with her like a man ? I cannot imagine anything more
 exasperating to the lady than to have such miserable pretexts
 brought forward seriously. And probably he persuaded himself
 that that was really a very good reason for being faithless. Mr.
 Lewes thinks so, and it was in his biography that I read about
 it. Her rival was addicted to drinking ardent spirits, but it does
 not appear that Goethe made the habit' a subject of serious
 complaint.
                        Miss Savage to Butler.
      21 "Jan. 1875—Just two or three lines to thank you for your
 letter received last night. It was very welcome, for I was really
 uncomfortable about you—indeed I was uncomfortable to the
 extreme pitch of counting up the weeks since the date of your
 last letter, as the pricks on the calendar on my wall will testify.
      I am in two minds about you and don't know whether I
 should be glad or sorry about what you tell me. I shall be sorry
  if you are beaten ; but then you will be so much happier in
  London writing and painting and amusing yourself. And I shall
  be glad if you succeed ; but then you will have to stay in Canada
 and be killed by bad cooking and ennui. You see I am quite
 disinterested and don't mention what I should like best. And I
 would not wish for you to come back, not even if I were to see
 a piebald horse, when, as you know, the wishes you wish then are
 all fulfilled. ...
      I did not know that if you write "Private and Confidential"
 on your letter you could be as libellous as you please. I should
  like to have the words stamped at the top of all my writing
  paper.
      I have not got an almanack for this year, so don't drive me
  to the pitch of wanting to count the weeks between your letters.

         218              MONTREAL MUSEUM
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
  1875       27 March 1875—I was at a dinner party about two months
Aet. 39 ago and heard a gentleman say that he had not read Erew/wn, but
        that Dr. Reid had told him it was the finest book that had been
        written for years. I don't know who Dr. Reid is, but he must
        be an intelligent person. I tell you this to show you that
        Ertwhon is still talked about. Good-bye and write to me very
        soon please. It was a month yesterday since I had your last
        letter.
              Butler did not like Canada.           He liked Montreal
        Mountain, where he had heard the bells of Notre Dame ;
        he liked the woods where the works were ; and he made
        several sketches ; but the commercial and suburban
        atmosphere of the place depressed him. He wrote :
              " A man, a true Montrealler, told me he had a
        yearning to get away from civilization : I said we were
        all of us given to discontent and seldom knew when we
        had got what we wanted. He did not see it, and I did
        not mean that he should ; but I felt better for having
        said it."
              He gave further vent to his feelings in " A Psalm of
        Montreal " which is printed in The Note-Books of Samuel
        Butler, and elsewhere (see post, p. 276). I give it again
        here for the sake of completeness.
                             A Psalm of Montreal
            The City of Montreal is one of the most rising and, in many
        respects, most agreeable on the American continent, but its
        inhabitants are as yet too busy with commerce to care greatly
        about the masterpieces of old Greek Art. In the Museum of
        Natural History I came upon two plaster casts, one of the
        Antinous and the other of the Discobolus—not the good one, but
        in my poem, of course, I intend the good one—banished from
        public view to a room where were all manner of skins, plants,
        snakes, insects, etc., and, in the middle of these, an old man
        stuffing an owl.
             " Ah," said I, " so you have some antiques here ; why don't
        you put them where people can see them ? "
             " Well, Sir," answered the custodian, " you see they are rather
        vulgar."

x111               OGOD! O MONTREAL!                               219
      He then talked a great deal, and said his brother did all Mr. 1875
Spurgeon's printing.                                                    Aet. 39
      The dialogue—perhaps true, perhaps imaginary, perhaps a
little of the one and a little of the other—between the writer and
this old man gave rise to the lines that follow :
Stowed away in a Montreal lumber room
The Discobolus standeth and turneth his face to the wall ;
Dusty, cobweb-covered, maimed and set at naught,
Beauty crieth in an attic and no man regardeth :
                                              OGod! O Montreal!
Beautiful by night and day, beautiful in summer and winter,
Whole or maimed, always and alike beautiful—
He preacheth gospel of grace to the skins of owls
And to one who seasoneth the skins of Canadian owls :
                                               O God ! O Montreal !
When I saw him I was wroth and I said, "O Discobolus !
Beautiful Discobolus, a Prince both among Gods and men,
What doest thou here, how earnest thou hither, Discobolus,
Preaching gospel in vain to the skins of owls ? "
                                               O God ! O Montreal !
And I turned to the man of skins and said unto him, " O thou man of
       skins,
Wherefore hast thou done thus to shame the beauty of the Discobolus ? "
But the Lord had hardened the heart of the man of skins,
And he answered, " My brother-in-law is haberdasher to Mr. Spurgeon."
                                               O God ! O Montreal !
"The Discobolus is put here because he is vulgar,
He has neither vest nor pants with which to cover his limbs ;
 I, Sir, am a person of most respectable connections—
My brother-in-law is haberdasher to Mr. Spurgeon."
                                               O God ! O Montreal !
Then I said, " O brother-in-law to Mr. Spurgeon's haberdasher,
Who seasonest also the skins of Canadian owls,
Thou callest trousers 'pants,' whereas I call them 'trousers,'
Therefore, thou art in hell-fire and may the Lord pity thee ! "
                                                O God ! O Montreal !
 " Preferrest thou the gospel of Montreal to the gospel of Hellas,
 The gospel of thy connection with Mr. Spurgeon's haberdashery to the
       gospel of the Discobolus ?"
 Yet none the less blasphemed he beauty saying, " The Discobolus hath
       no gospel,
 But my brother-in-law is haberdasher to Mr. Spurgeon."
                                               O God ! O Montreal !
       If the render will refer to the reproduction of " Mr.

        220                      CHARWOMEN                                xm
1«7S Heatherley's Holiday," he will see that it contains, not
et. 39 only a cast of the Discobolus, but also, among the pots on
        the top shelf, a stuffed owl. Nothing turns upon this, but
        as a coincidence it appears worth mentioning. Butler sent
        a copy of " A Psalm of Montreal " to Miss Savage.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
            2<)th April 1875—The poem is delightful, and a great deal
        too good to be kept to myself. So I took it to the club, and
      ' looked about for some congenial soul to share it with me. I saw
        Miss Drew, and hinted to her that I wanted a private conference
        with her ; so we retired to the dressing-room, where, among the
        damp waterproofs and goloshes, I read it to her very great delecta
        tion. She is tremendously orthodox, but can never resist fun.
        Then I gave it to Miss Kempe [who became the second wife of
        Henry Stacy Marks, R.A.] to take to Mr. Heatherley, who sent
        word that he liked it, but thought you were hard on Spurgeon,
        who, it seems, is very fond of the fine arts ! I wish you would
        send it to some magazine, but I suppose it should be slightly
        softened for the public ? But you would know best. . . .
            I am rejoiced to hear that you still hate [too strong a word
        —S. B.] Canada, and hope you will get nothing good to eat, or you
        might want to stay there. I wish you were here ; for I am full
        of perplexities, and should like to consult you, which I can't do
        by letter, not even if I put " Private and Confidential " at the head
        of my letter, for my story besides being libellous would be long—
        too long.
            I have been very busy at the club. I have been keeping
        house for nine weeks, with only one week's rest. We have had
        no end of bother with our servants. Our cook was ill, and
        obliged to go to hospital; and .while she was away we had a
        succession of fiends in the shape of charwomen, who had whole
        harems of husbands, though they only confessed to one ; still I
        am sure only a plurality of spouses could have consumed so much.
        Then I had a housemaid, a Scotch widow, of a certain age, who
        had never been in service before—an intensely stupid, slow, and
        easily flurried person. She was religious, too, and had many
        scruples concerning the Sabbath. There were three things, how
        ever, which she loathed more than breaking the Sabbath, which
        were a duster, a scrubbing-brush, and a broom—rather necessary
        things for a housemaid to handle, but which she would never
        voluntarily touch. Oh, the Fiend ! but she is gone—may I never
        see her more ! She was a widow ; and I know what her husband
        died of — Dirt ! Then the members ! some of them have

 XIII                      LITIGATION                           221
 "timpers," like the claimant's Mary Jane. Miss Dixon lives in 1875
 the house. I have nicknamed her the Pocket Cyclone. I used Aet. 39
 to be able to put up with her " timper " ; but she has been attend
 ing Moody and Sankey's ministrations, and has " found Christ,"
 since which time she has been unbearable. I have not been to
 hear these new apostles. Miss Drew went to hear a preaching ;
 and as she didn't stand up when desired, that is, when all who
 had "found Christ" stood up, a man came round from the plat
 form and preached to her, asking her if her sins were very heavy,
 and beseeching her to trust to the Blood, and to the Blood alone.
 I mean to go one day myself. Don't you think you might send
 them a present of The Fair Haven ? Moody might quote it in
 the pulpit, and make its fortune ; I think I will send my first
edition copy, if you will give me another. . . .
       The Drawing Room Gazette has been in the market. Mrs.
 Briggs asked ^8oo for it, and declared it was cheap at the price.
She had a nibble from some one who offered ^50, but who withdrew
from the bargain. I don't know of any news to tell you ; I am
 getting quite stupid ; my mind always upon shoulders of mutton
and potatoes, and rice puddings, and twopences and half-pennies,
and hashed beef, and curry, and beer, and gingerbeer, and all the
thousand articles we nourish ourselves with. I go to the Stores
(the Civil Service Stores) for all groceries, etc., and I am always
studying the Price List—a bulky pamphlet which I call my New
Testament. The members have got so used to the expression
 that even the religious ones are not shocked, and when I say, " I
have lost my New Testament," they will get up and look about
for it. Write to me soon, please, and a thousand thanks for the
poem.
       Butler was in England again in May, having to see
the Board and report. In July he was at Langar for a
few days, the first time he had been asked there since the
publication of Erewhon and the Whitehall affair. He
returned to Montreal in the Sarmatian and wrote to Miss
Savage, 3rd September 1875 :
      I am in full swing of litigation . . . and up to my eyes with
all attendant worry and anxiety. ... I had a pleasant voyage
out, travelling with some rather nice people ; also with old Lord
Houghton, from whom I won 26/- at whist on various nights.
We had service on board on Sunday. I accompanied the chants
and hymns on the piano and old Lord Houghton warbled " Rock
of Ages" in a very edifying manner.
       Butler made the following note about

        222                FINANCIAL CRISIS                        xm
                        Lord Houghton and Myself
  1875      When I was going over to America with him he asked me
Aet. 40 what I thought of the Americans. I said I did not know ; but I
        had seen them eating rhubarb in the month of July, and it had
        made a great impression on me.
            The Company's affairs did not mend, and at last
        Butler came to the conclusion that nothing more could
        be done. He had to give evidence in some legal pro
        ceedings, and kept the newspaper cuttings with the account
        of his cross-examination which lasted for hours. They
        tried to get his evidence set aside on the ground that he
        was an atheist. Immediately afterwards he went to New
        York and embarked on an Inman liner for Liverpool. He
        arrived in London on 7th December, showed the directors
        how hopeless their position was, and, finding that his
        opinion was not acted upon, resigned his place upon
        the Board. The Company failed a few months later.
        He had done his best, and reduced the expenses by £ 1 600
        a year. The experience was valuable for him ; it showed
        him something of the ways of business men, of which
        he would otherwise have known nothing.                It also
        undermined his faith in Pauli's business capacity,—that
        is to say, he did not agree with Pauli's views. Possibly
        Pauli may have been right and Butler wrong ; the com
        panies may have been all hopeless from the first. The
        Canada Tanning Extract Company, for instance, made
        good stuff and could afford to sell it at a good profit ; but
        no one would buy it because it tanned the leather to a
        colour which the trade disliked. This defect had not
        been foreseen ; and there may have been some similarly
         incurable latent defect with each of the other companies
         which rendered them incapable of being pulled through
         by any kind of management.
             When the companies had all smashed Butler had
         about £2000 capital left, and he and Pauli sat down to
         eat this up. He did not throw Pauli over and tell him
         he could help him no further, even if he was making
         nothing at the Bar ; he went on paying him ,£200 a year
         out of his dwindling capital—a very different thing from

x111            FACING THE FUTURE                         223
paying him that sum out of his former income of about 1875
£800 a year, of which he never wanted more than £300 Aet. 40
for his own personal expenses. He had brought Pauli to
England, had paid for his going to the Bar, had induced
him to put his money into the companies, and was bound
in honour to see him through. He felt that the position
was all wrong ; but he considered himself to be in loco
parentis, and was not going to behave like Theobald.
And even now Pauli would not tell him anything of his
private affairs, nor where he lived, nor whether he was
making anything at the Bar ; and they never met except
when Pauli came over from Lincoln's Inn to lunch at
Butler's early dinner in Clifford's Inn.
     Butler returned to his profession of painting, and
described himself in the Post Office Directory as an
artist ; he was an author by way of relaxation, and had
been a business man in a parenthesis.            Miss Savage
had a scheme for him to sell his work to a friend of
hers, Mr. Lawrence Lewis, who had set up for himself
in Pall Mall ; and another for him to paint furniture
panels for Gillow's in Oxford Street. Neither of the
schemes came to anything ; and he settled down to painting
pictures as best he could, his heart being all the time set
on philosophy and literature. But whether it was paint
ing, philosophy, or literature he did not approach any of
his subjects in a spirit likely to lead to commercial success.
He had been brought up for the Church, and had not
found out till too late what " the Church " meant. His
education, which had " cost all that money," as Theobald
would have said, had omitted to give him any instruction
in the art of getting paid for his work. This was an art
about which he knew nothing ; he did not even know
that such an art existed ; he still believed that if he
honourably did his best, the work must naturally sell.
He never made more than a few pounds now and then
by selling a picture, and, as he never got a publisher to
take any of his books till the last year of his life, when
Grant Richards took Erewhon Revisited, he had to pay
for everything he published.          With the £2000 con
tinually dwindling, his financial embarrassment during

         224                   PAST SELVES                             xm
  1875 the next nearly twelve years was an increasing source of
Aet. 40 anx;etv . ancj an the time ^e ^j on his back Pauli, who
         never did anything to help.
             On the death of Canon Butler, in 1886, the financial
         anxiety ceased ; and thereafter he could carry Pauli with
        ease. On Pauli's death, in 1897, he had the memory of
         the failure of a quixotic episode, but nothing to reproach
        himself with.
             There was, however, a third person causing anxiety
        which began to assume serious proportions about this
        time. He believed that Miss Savage wanted to marry
        him, and he did not want to marry Miss Savage. When
        this situation arises between a man and a woman inter
        course cannot be continued for long unless one or the
        other yields. Miss Savage yielded, and thereby covered
        Butler with shame and disgrace in his own eyes. His
        father and Pauli died leaving him with no wound in his
        conscience ; he knew he had treated them better than
        they had treated him. Miss Savage's death, in 1885,
        brought him no relief ; he knew that she had treated
        him better than he had treated her, and far better than he
       deserved.
             To say more here would be to anticipate, and the
        subject recurs later on {e.g. the close of ch. xxiii.) ; but
        it seemed necessary to tell the reader this much lest he
        should misunderstand the first and last of the three notes
        by Butler which are attached to the two following letters
       from Miss Savage. The notes were written in 1901,
       within a year of his own death, in the spirit of this passage
       from his letter of 10th January 1861, to his cousin Philip
       Worsley (ante, p. 97), " I feel this last paragraph to be
       severe. It is on my own past self that I would have
       the severity fall."
                                     Note 1
            I destroyed a very reproachful little letter, dated March 20 ;
       and when I came to the autumn of 1875 was sorry that I had
       done so. The burden of the letter was to say that it was plain
       I should let a hundred years go by without writing to her so long

XIII                        DILEMMA                             225
as she did not write to me, and that she would have written sooner 1875
but she had lost my address.                                         Aet. 40
     Doubtless the determination that I should be made to write
two or three times before she would answer was the reason why
I heard nothing from her between August and December 1875.
     Knowing how much she had been piqued and pained by my
silence in the spring, I wrote three times in the autumn without
eliciting an answer. Then I was forgiven. I never was placed
in a much more difficult position. To write was to encourage
false hopes ; not to write was to be grossly unkind. So I wrote,
and I suppose this was right.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
                     "The Woman's Gazette,"
                           42 Somerset Street, Portman Square, W.
                                          Die. 15, 1875.
     Dear Mr. Butler . . . Did I tell you Wednesday ?
 How stupid of me. I have so many things on my mind just
now that I forget those which are the most important. My wits
are beautiful to look at, but not much good for use. I send you
a ticket and a programme. My dear little Gabrielle Vaillant
[ ! S. B.] plays exquisitely ; some night you must come and hear
her. She shall play Beethoven's " Romance in F " for you
 [ ! S. B.]. Is there anything else you would like ?
     I have got such a delicious cake ; it was only given me half
an hour ago.      I wish you could have had some of it.         How
stupid of me to go out. The fact is, Wednesday is a day of
reception here, and by a very curious coincidence I generally have
an important engagement on that day. The older I grow the
less I care for company, unless it is exactly the kind I like. I
don't care about the company being good, but I like it to my
taste. Alas ! I remember the time when if two or three (no
matter who) were gathered together, I liked to be there in the
midst of them.
     I get great fun out of this place ; I delight in Miss Scott ; I
really like her, and her little oddities are most diverting. She is
very jolly ; and, as I readily acknowledge her to be the greatest
authority living upon every subject under the sun, we get on
well together. Miss Scott is at the head of the art embroidery at
this establishment, and it was she who got me my berth. Good
bye ; try to come to-morrow, and in time for the violin.—Yours
very truly,                                       E. M. A. Savage.
     P.S.—My poor little fiddler [Gabrielle Vaillant] is to have an
accompanist whom she does not like. Mr. Donaldson's daughter
      VOL. J                                                 Q

        226               "ADORING SPINSTERS"                           xn,
  1875 was to accompany her, and she accompanies beautifully ; but
Aet. 40 they have changed and handed her over to Tamplin, who is con
        ceited because he plays the organ at Mr. Haweis's church. Don't
        you detest Haweis ?
                                       Note 2
             Of course I did ; and I did not like Tamplin, whom I knew
        well at Cambridge. Among other freaks he wrote the " Messiah
        Quadrilles," which I have vainly tried to see. They are sure to
        be clever—at least I should think they would be.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
                                  "The Woman's Gazette,"
                                      42 Somerset Street, Portman Square.
                                                 Dec. lilh, 1875.
             Dear Mr. Butler — I have had another letter from the
        lady who admires you ; she wants you and me to go on Monday
        to meet Mr. Voysey, who, it seems, is also an admirer of yours
        (the only nice thing I ever heard of him). Perhaps all the
        admiration he can spare from himself he bestows on you ; but
        that won't be much, so don't be elated. I can't go on Monday,
        I shall be much too busy ; and, to tell you the truth, I should
        always like to be too busy to meet Mr. Voysey. However, this
        time it is quite true that 1 shall be over head and ears in work,
        and I should always be delighted to meet a dozen Mr. Voyseys if
        you were thrown in to make thirteen. So go and meet Mr.
        Voysey on Monday or me tomorrow. If you choose Voysey I
        shall not be hurt, for I am sure you will suffer by your choice.
        While you are being bored by Voysey I shall be congratulating
        myself on being better off.
             There is one thing, though, that I must tell you ; and that is
        that if you become surrounded by a circle of adoring spinsters (of
        which I see symptoms), I shall drop your acquaintance. Have
        you not taught me that there is nothing so contemptible as a
        boree ? and a boree I shall be when you are worshipped by your
        spins.
             I don't believe I should have hated Voysey half so much if
        he had not told us about the six pocket-handkerchiefs all em
        broidered with slings and stones in the corners. I asked if that
        was his crest ; but it seems it was the title of a book he wrote.
        Woe betide you if you have pocket-handkerchiefs with Havens
        in the corners !
             Good-bye. I have just been sending a Gazette to your
        father. We are sending to all the subscribers to a Benevolent

xn1                       HAUNTED                              227
Institution. He is one of the Benevolent, so he has his reward 1875
in this world in the shape of a Gazette.—Yours truly,              Aet. 40
                                               E. M. A. Savage.
                              Note 3
    I do not remember having gone to meet Voysey. I met
Voysey once or twice at Henry Hoare's and I may have gone to
Dulwich and met him at Miss Wilson's ; but I have no recollection
either of Miss Wilson or of going to see Miss Wilson ; still, I
may have gone. As for my being surrounded with a circle of
adoring spinsters —who, I wonder, was it that was doing her
utmost to surround me, and boring me almost beyond endurance,
in spite of all my admiration, respect, gratitude, and compunction
at my own inability to requite her affection for me in the only
way that would have satisfied her ? If ever man gave woman
"her answer unequivocally and at the beginning, I gave mine to
Miss Savage. But it was no use ; she would not be checked, and
I had not either the heart to check her, or—well, never mind.
I would if I could, but I could not. And to this day she daily
haunts me in that I could not.

                            CHAPTER XIV
                                     1876
         THE OFFSPRING OF THE EREWHONIAN MACHINES
 1876 We have now reached the year in which Butler and I met
A«. 40 £or the flrst time . it seems proper, therefore, to interpo
       late at this point such particulars about myself as the
       reader ought to know.
            My father, Thomas Jones, was born in 18 12 ; he was
       the son of a solicitor of Liverpool, Edward Blackstock
       (1759- 1 830), whose family came from Nithsdale in
       Dumfriesshire. Edward Blackstock never married, and I
       know nothing about my father's mother except that she
       died about 1 844 ; there used to be a legend that she was
       Welsh and that my father called himself Jones after her.
       Thomas Jones was sent to school at Wrexham, and then
       into the office of his uncle, Thomas Blackstock, a solicitor
       in King's Bench Walk, London. He served his articles,
       but, instead of being admitted a solicitor, became a special
       pleader, was afterwards called to the Bar, and joined the
       Northern Circuit. In 1844 he was lodging at Putney in
       a house in River Street, the ground landlord of which,
       the Rev. William Carmalt, had an only child, Ellen (1828-
       1900). Thomas Jones and Ellen Carmalt fell in love
       with one another, he being then thirty-two and she sixteen.
           William Carmalt (1770-1850) was born at Appleby.
       In the year of his birth William Paley (ante, p. 9) became
       Vicar of Appleby, and 1 like to think that he may have
       baptized my grandfather. William Carmalt came to
       London to wait for a cadetship which had been promised
       him in the East India Company's service. To occupy his
                                      228

 x1v       THOMAS AND ELLEN JONES                        229
 time and keep himself he acted as usher in a school at 1876
 Putney ; and, the cadetship not coming or coming after he Aet. 4°
 was too old to accept it, he remained at the school, and
 ultimately took it over and carried it on very successfully
 during the first thirty years of the century—that is during
 the period that Dr. Butler was carrying on his much
 larger and more important school at Shrewsbury. He
 became a clergyman, not because he felt any special voca
 tion for the Church, but because in those days school
 masters were usually clergymen. He married, first, a
 Miss Bewsher, by whom he had several children who all
 died in infancy ; and, on becoming a widower, married
 Eleanor Ruddock (nee Ballantine) the widow of the Rev.
Joshua Ruddock, who had kept a school at Wimbledon.
Eleanor Ballantine was a sister of William Ballantine
 (1771-1852), who was magistrate of the Thames Police
Court and the father of Serjeant Ballantine.
     Thomas Jones and Ellen Carmalt were married in
 1845. I was the second of their eight children and was
born on 27th May 1851 at 14 Gloucester Terrace,
Paddington. My mother used to say that Ballantine was
a name adopted by some members of the family of Rob
Roy, and that she was thus connected with the outlaw.
I do not know whether there was any foundation for
this, but the Ballantines were Scotch. Therefore I am
two quarters Scotch through the Blackstocks and the
Ballantines ; one quarter Welsh, assuming that my father's
mother was Welsh ; and one quarter English through the
Carmalts.
     I remember being told that I was to have been
christened Michael Festing, after my godfather Michael
John Festing, and I do not know why my first name
was changed to Henry. My godfather was related, but I
do not know how, to my grandmother's first husband,
Joshua Ruddock. He was of the family of the Festings
of whom it is stated in The Dictionary of National
Biography that they are of German origin and descended
from Michael Christian Festing (d. 1752), the violinist
and composer who initiated the Royal Society of Musicians
of which Handel was one of the original members.

        230                    H. F. JONES
  1876       I was taught reading and writing by a governess at
Aet. 4° home, and then went daily for about a year to Inverness
        Terrace (which was near Craven Hill Gardens, Paddington,
        where we were then living) to be instructed in the rudi
        ments of Latin by Theophilus Stebbing, a son of the Rev.
        Henry Stebbing, D.D. (1799-1883). It is perhaps worth
        mentioning, as a coincidence, that Dr. Henry Stebbing had
        been second master, under Dr. Valpy, at Norwich Grammar
        School, where Dr. Parr had been master ; and that one of
        Dr. Stebbing's pupils at Norwich was Henry Reeve, the
        grandson of Mr. and Mrs. John Taylor of Norwich, who
        is mentioned ante p. 17 ; also, in view of the many
        contributions which Butler made to The Athenaeum, that
        Dr. Stebbing, after a year with Dr. Valpy, came to
        London in 1827, and wrote for The Athenaeum from its
        foundation. " After three or four issues he became the
        working editor " (Dictionary of National Biography).
             In 1860 I was sent to school at Rottingdean under
        Dr. Smith, who had carried on the school for many years
        and died during my first term. I remained under his suc
        cessor, James Hewitt, who was helped by his brother, the
        Rev. Thomas Hewitt, of Emmanuel College, Cambridge,
        and by another brother, William.
             In 1865 I left Rottingdean and went to Radley, where
         I remained until 1869 when, being considered backward,
         I was sent to Thurcaston, in Leicestershire, for a year's
         private tuition by the rector, the Rev. John Fuller. Just
         as I got settled at Thurcaston my father died. He had
         taken silk about four years previously.
              In 1870 I went up to Trinity Hall, Cambridge, and
         in 1873 came down with an ordinary B.A. degree. In
         November of the same year I was articled to Mr. (after
         wards Sir Thomas) Paine (1 822-1 908), of the firm of
         Paine & Layton, Solicitors, then of Gresham House in the
         City of London, and was admitted a solicitor in November
          1876. Sir Thomas Paine was born at Yarmouth and
         remembered being taken in his childhood to see a Mrs.
         Turner who died soon afterwards at the age of eighty-five.
         This old lady, when a girl, had heard at Cambridge a per
         formance of the Messiah conducted by Handel himself.

x1v                HALL AND GURNEY                              231
Sir Thomas Paine, whom Butler met several times, was 1876
therefore another link with Handel.                                  Aet. 40
     Soon after my father's death my mother gave up her
house in London and travelled on the Continent with my
two sisters, only occasionally coming to England. She
ultimately settled at Nice, where she died in January
 1900. When my mother left London I went into
lodgings and during the winter of 1875-6 was living in
Cork Street, Bond Street, and going to the city every day.
      It is mentioned in chapter x. (ante, p. 152) that I made
Buder's acquaintance partly through John Elder who was
at Trinity Hall with me. Another Hall man whom I
knew was Edward Algernon Hall, whose people lived at
Whatton, near Langar, and knew the Butlers intimately.
I suppose that Vincent Hall, who is mentioned in chapter
iii. (ante, p. 40) as the master of Freck the shepherd, was
one of the Halls of Whatton. Edward A. Hall and John
Elder lodged in the same house at Cambridge, and we all
rowed in the same races. I was in Hall's rooms in Green
Street, Cambridge, one evening early in 1872 when Erewhon
was passing through the press, and some proofs came from
Butler for Hall to read. The proofs included the great
chords moaned by the statues, and I remember our verify
ing the printed page by comparing it with the prelude to
the first of Handel's " Trois Lecons."
      While I was living in Cork Street, Hall was lodging
at 20 Clarges Street, Piccadilly. We used to meet at the
Monday Popular Concerts at St. James's Hall and after
wards go to his rooms. Butler also went to the concerts,
for he had not then " completely broken with high-class
modern music," and he frequently turned into Hall's rooms
afterwards. There I first met him on the 10th January
 1876. Hall had been at Winchester with Henry Gurney
who sometimes came after the concert, bringing his brother
Edmund. This is from Butler's account of the friendship
between him and myself :
     I used to go to Hall's rooms because I had known him ever
since he was a baby. . . . There was still a reminiscence about both
him and Harry Gurney of the time when they were at Winchester
and used to come to my rooms in their holidays, and I would play

        232                  IN HALL'S ROOMS                              x.v
  1876 Handel, to whom they then were devoted. As long as they
Aet. 40 worshipped Handel I liked them ; but when they began to turn up
        their noses at him, and say that they really could not go back to
        Handel after having known Lecocq and Madame Angot, I began
        to drop them.
             At the meetings in Hall's rooms the conversation was
        about the concert, John Farmer and the Music School at
        Harrow, and music in general, whence it would branch off
        to other subjects, especially the burlesques at the Gaiety
        Theatre. Edmund Gurney said one evening, and Butler
        said he believed he meant it seriously, and saw no fun in it,
        that the world had produced four great un-self-conscious
        artists, viz. Homer, Raphael, Wordsworth, and Nellie
        Farren. Gurney afterwards wrote a book on music, The
        Power of Sound (1880), and associated himself with
        Frederick W. H. Myers as Secretary of the Society for
        Psychical Research.
              Butler would sit on the sofa in Hall's rooms with a
        piece of newspaper spread on his knees, eating his supper
        of bacon and bread, which had been in his pocket all
        through the concert, and talking about painting, as became
         an artist ; but his mind was full of his writing. If fewer
         people had been present I am sure he would have talked
         about Life and Habit, which was at this time descending
         with modifications from the machines in Erewhon. On
         one of these evenings he told us that he had recently said
         to a lady that he was thinking of giving up art, returning
         to literature, and writing a satire upon Christianity. The
         lady, who was Miss Savage, said, as Alethea says in The
         Way of all Flesh (chap- xxxii.) :
               " Oh ! no : don't waste your time on those people.
         Have they not Moses and the Prophets ? Let them hear
         them."
               Miss Savage also went to the concerts ; she wrote to
         Butler, 9th February 1876 :
              I saw you in the orchestra. I was far away in the dark place
         under the gallery, where I always like to be. Next Monday I
         shall have to go to the orchestra, for Miss Scott wants to go, and I
         shall never dare confess to her that I am afraid. [She was afraid
         the organ would come down on her.—August 27th, 1901. S. B.]

x1v         THE GROWTH OF A THEORY                            233
But wasn't it delightful ?    I am sure even you must have liked    1876
the Schumann quartet.                                              Aet. 40
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
     [About 15 Jan. 1876]—I will come and see you about 8 to
morrow Thursday evening. I have still got a heavy cold, but am
painting and writing better. I have got a very dry but exceedingly
(to me) interesting subject—something like the machines in
Erewhon—on which I am now working steadily ; but what it
will come to I do not know. At any rate it has the merit of not
being aimed directly or indirectly at Christianity, and not being
satirical save incidentally. It is on the force of habit. I have
never been so taken with a subject since I wrote The Fair Haven.
    [Then I was not sure that my Life and Habit theory was
more than ingenious paradox ; but by February 14th I had
gripped my meaning, and knew it to be sound. See my book
Unconscious Memory, p. 30, and my letter to T. W. G. Butler of
Feb. 18th, 1876—S. B. 1901.]
     An account of the course of the development of Life
and Habit is given in chapter ii. of Unconscious Memory,
" How. I came to write Life and Habit." Butler had first
assumed that man is a mechanism, whence followed the
inference about machines becoming animate. He next
took the view that machines were limbs which we had made
outside our bodies and carried about with us. This was
put forward in " Lucubratio Ebria " published in The Press,
New Zealand, 29th July 1865, and reprinted in The Note-
Books of Samuel Butler. In The Reasoner (1st July 1865)
appeared an extension of the first view. The next step in
the development of the idea was " The Book of the
Machines " in Erewhon. Then came an interruption,
caused by writing The Fair Haven, after which he returned
to the machines, and proposed not only to see them as
limbs but also to see limbs as machines. What would
follow if we regarded our limbs and organs as machines we
had manufactured for our convenience? How did we
come to make them unconsciously ? How do we do any
thing unconsciously ? By habit ? Can a man be said to
do by habit a thing which he has never done before ?
But the thing has been done by his ancestors. That will

        234             ORGANS AND MACHINES                                 XJv
  1876 not help unless the man and his ancestors are the same
Aet. 40 person. Perhaps they are ? What is sameness ?
             Then came the interruption caused by his going to
        Canada ; but he continued to think about identity and habit
        and to make notes. On finally returning to London he
        put his notes in order, and by February found he had got
        hold of a theory which he thought must be sound. On
        1 8th February 1876, partly to clear his mind and partly
        to announce his discovery to some one, he wrote an account
        of the theory to T. W. G. Butler who was then in New
        Zealand. An imperfect copy of the letter is in the British
        Museum (Department of MSS.), and an extract from it is
        given in The Note-Books of Samuel Butler. A summary of
        the letter is given in an Appendix to the present work.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
                                                  "The Woman's Gazette."
                                                    [About March 10th, 1876.]
             My dear Mr. Butler—How unkind of you to come the
        very minute after I went out ; I should not have minded half so
        much if you had not come at all—if you had come half an hour
        later, even, it would not have been so bad (why is it always more
        disagreeable just to miss a pleasure than to miss it by a great deal ?)
        Will you come and see me this week ? I shall ask my little
        fiddler [Gabrielle Vaillant] to come and play to you. I did not
        ask her the last time you came because I had heard nothing of
        you or your affairs for so long ; and if she had been here you would
        have listened, and I wanted you to talk. She will very likely come
        to-day to have something to eat before going to the concert—so
        I shall ask her to come. What a lovely concert last Monday ! I
        saw you there, as I did the Monday before, in the orchestra.
        Last Monday I was under the gallery, having nearly lost my life
        three times the Monday before in the orchestra. It would not
        have been so bad if I had quite lost it ; but just to miss, as I said
        just now, is disagreeable.
             I was reading a lecture of Helmholtz yesterday : it seems that
        we have in our ears little microscopic keyboards with keys and
        cords and dampers all complete—in fact, it seems as if the Lord
        had tried to imitate Broadwood and Erard. The only difference
        is that the black keys are not black, so there is yet room for
        improvement ; the same peculiarity is observable in many of the
        old harpsichords and spinets. It is quite comfortable to think

x1v              JONES VISITS BUTLER                          235
that we are fitted up with things so familiar to us as the common 1876
domestic piano ; but it is rather droll to think that when we are Aet. 40
playing upon the piano, the piano is playing upon us in exactly
the same way. I should think that in time we might play upon
ourselves without the clumsy mediums that we now employ. An
orchestra, now—what an expensive troublesome thing it is !
    But I am forgetting that I am very busy to-day. So no more
from yours truly,                            E. M. A. Savage.
     While Erewhon was being written, painting was put
in the background but not given up ; while the companies
demanded attention it had to be practically given up ;
after the smash of the last company Butler took to
painting again, and did not give it up to write Life and
Habit. So far as I can remember, I first went to Butler's
rooms with John Elder ; the first time I went there alone
was on an afternoon towards the end of March 1876 on
 my way back from the city. Butler was in and showed
 me the two pictures he was painting for the Academy.
 His sitting-room was about half as long again as it was
 broad, with the fire-place at one end ; and at the other
 two windows which looked west over the grass plot and
 trees of Clifford's Inn. The door was in the middle of
 one side wall, and against the opposite wall was the piano.
 The room was panelled, painted a dirty white, and hung
 with his own sketches and photographs of Italian pictures.
 The pictures I had come to see were in his painting-room
 which looked out upon Fetter Lane. The more im
 portant one was in oils ; he called it " Don Quixote,"
 but admitted that it was only a study from a costume
 model at Heatherley's, and no more like one's notion of
 Don Quixote than it was like any other man in armour ;
 but he was obliged to give it a title, otherwise, he said,
 the Academy would not look at it. He probably said
 much the same to Miss Savage, for when she went to the
 exhibition and saw the second picture, which was a water-
 colour of a girl's head, she wrote that, if it did not sell,
 he must call it " Mignon " and send it to a provincial
 show. He told Miss Savage that " Don Quixote " had
 found a purchaser who paid £15 : 1 5s. for it. " I never
 liked the picture till now, but now I like it very much."

       236                RIGHT AND WRONG                                    xrv
187«         This was the last time the Academy accepted any
et' 40 picture by Butler ; the following list of all his pictures
       exhibited in the Royal Academy was kindly made for me
       by his fellow-student, Mr. H. R. Robertson :
                  1869 Miss Atcheson.
                  1 87 1 A Reverie.
                1874 (1) A Child's head. (2) Mr. Heatherley's Holiday:
                           an incident in studio life.
                1876 (1) Don Quixote. (2) A Girl's head.
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
                                                    22 Beaumont Street.
                                                       [About April jth, 1876.]
            Dear Mr. Butler—I am glad to know that the Company
       is in extremis ; perhaps, indeed, by this time it may be no more.
       Mind you let me know as soon as it is quite dead. It will be a
       great burden off your shoulders. ... I wish you did not know
       right from wrong.
            I am so sorry that our little concert did not come off.
       Mdlle. Vaillant is going to play to Joachim to-day, or rather has
       played to him. I am longing to know all about it. . . .
            I went to the Popular Concert last night. I did not see you.
       The quintet took 45 minutes to play. I think they ought to
       allow ten minutes for refreshments in such a case, or at all events
       an interval for letting pins drop ; the person next me sneezed
       twice, which was a blessing to those in our immediate neighbour
       hood ; for they all looked round, ostensibly to express severe dis
       approbation, but really to give themselves a little relief, and
       change of ideas and position. I daresay they were longing to
       sneeze too. . . .
            Excuse my not having sent this before ; but I am bothered
       with my accounts, and everything went out of my head yesterday
       except my day-book and ledger, which have, I think, taken up
       their abode in my brain, and are very angular and uncomfortable.
       I shall lose nine and elevenpence. I can't get the entries in
       the ledger to correspond with the day-book. I am elevenpence
       wrong in the receipts too much, and 1s. 8d. in the expenditure
       too little. When I say I shall lose 9s. 1 1d., I suppose I must
       have appropriated those monies and so must refund.—Yours very
       truly,                                          E. M. A. Savage.
             Butler did not keep the original of the foregoing
       letter ; he copied it, but only in part, and the dots
       represent passages which he himself cut out. I suppose

x.v                   COLLABORATION                            237
that when Miss Savage wrote, "I wish you did not know 1876
right from wrong " in this letter she was referring to his Ae1- 40
scrupulousness in matters of business, as she says in her letter
to him of 15th October 1874 (ante, p. 215) : "You told
me what you had been doing—buying back other people's
shares in the Company." He did buy back the shares of
 those friends whom he had induced to speculate, or in
 some way he acted so that they did not lose money
 through following his advice; and it would be quite in her
 manner, while admiring him for doing this, to chaff him
 for being so quixotic.         But when, in 1901, he was
 " editing his remains " and reviewing his past life he
 showed that he supposed Miss Savage to have used these
words about his not knowing right from wrong in a
different sense, as we shall see later.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
     [From the following letter I see I must have proposed that
Miss Savage and I should write a book, probably a novel, together ;
I had quite forgotten this.— 1901. S. B. After saying how
much she wished the Canada Tanning Extract Co. would finally
smash she continues, April 19, 1876 :]
     With regard to your proposal to me, I decline it ; not but
that I like it very much, but please remember that I have a
conscience—or rather, I should say (for my conscience is a very
manageable one) some regard for you. Do what you may with
anything I can produce, and you will have something immeasur
ably inferior to what you can do all alone. And why should you
gain the reputation of doing common work, when you can so
easily do the best ?
     [I copy this out for Miss Savage's sake ; but, as a matter of
fact, I felt very unsound and weak as a writer for many a long
year still. It is only during the last six or seven years that I
have felt strong. I think my Life of Dr. Butler taught me more
than anything else did.—S. B. Sept. 6, 1901.]
    I know you over-estimate my powers ; and so long as your
delusion is harmless I should certainly encourage it (indeed, I am
not sure that I don't share it) "but when a lunatic becomes
dangerous to himself or others he must be restrained." Such
a partnership could not do you anything but harm.
    Besides our respective shares could never be calculated. You
bring capital, credit, and do the work—and then we divide the

        238              "THE RIGHTEOUS MAN"                              *1v
  1876 profits ? Not       that I should object to having more than my
Aet. 40 share, for I am    naturally greedy, and would plunder anyone else
        with pleasure ;    but my first objection to the plan is conclusive,
        and so no more     need be said, except that I thank you very much.
                                Miss Savage to Butler.
            29 April 1876— I have just earned 6s. by doing needlework,
        and am therefore justly proud. I only wish the demand were
        equal to the supply ; but though there are 30 millions of people
        within these realms I more than suffice to supply them. Some
        day, when I have very much improved in the art, I may perhaps
        embroider you a kettle-holder.
             In the same letter she asks, " Has your ' Righteous
        Man ' appeared yet ? " This is all I have found to date
        the composition of "The Righteous Man." Butler made a
        note on the letter saying he supposed the poem must have
        been refused by The Examiner in 1876, and concluding,
        " On reading it again, I think it very good.—S. B., Nov.
        1st, 1901." He sent it to The Examiner later, when the
        paper was under other management, and it appeared on
        5th April 1879 as part of a correspondence "A Clergy
        man's Doubts" (post, p. 295). Although given in The
        Note-Books of Samuel Butler, it may properly be repeated
        here.
                                 The R1ghteous Man
        The righteous man will rob none but the defenceless,
        Whatsoever can reckon with him he will neither plunder nor kill ;
        He will steal an egg from a hen or a lamb from an ewe ;
        For his sheep and his hens cannot reckon with him hereafter—
        They live not in any odour of defencefulness ;
        Therefore right is with the righteous man, and he taketh advantage
             righteously,
        Praising God and plundering.
        The righteous man will enslave his horse and his dog,
        Making them serve him for their bare keep and for nothing further,
        Shooting them, selling them for vivisection when they can no longer
              profit him,
        Backbiting them and beating them if they fail to please him ;
         For his horse and his dog can bring no action for damages,
        Wherefore, then, should he not enslave them, shoot them, sell them
              for vivisection ?

x1v              GRACE AND THE LAW                                239
But the righteous man will not plunder the defenceful—                18-5
Not if he be alone and unarmed—for his conscience will smite him ; Aet. 40
He will not rob a she-bear of her cub, nor an eagle of her eaglets—
Unless he have a rifle to purge him from the fear of sin ;
Then may he shoot rejoicing in innocency—from ambush or a safe
     distance ;
Or he will beguile them, lay poison for them, keep no faith with
     them ;
For what faith is there with that which cannot reckon hereafter,
Neither by itself, nor by another, nor by any residuum of ill con
     sequences ?
Surely, where weakness is utter, honour ceaseth.
Nay, I will do what is right in the eyes of him who can harm me,
And not in those of him who cannot call me to account.
Therefore yield me up thy pretty wings, O humming-bird !
Sing for me in a prison, O lark !
Pay me thy rent, O widow ! for it is mine.
Where there is reckoning there is sin,
And where there is no reckoning sin is not.
     He was abroad alone from the middle of May till the
beginning of August, all the time making sketches and
writing Life and Habit. He stayed for three weeks at
Faido and for nearly a month at Mendrisio. He went
to Fusio, where he met and made friends with Spartaco
Vela, son of the eminent sculptor, and some other Italian
painters. When he left Fusio he went over the Sassello
Grande to Airolo and his guide was Guglielmoni who
comes into Alps and Sanctuaries, chapter xxvi., " Fusio " ;
and in the chapter " Fusio Revisited," which is added to
the second edition (1913), he comes again and takes Butler
and me for the same walk. From Airolo Butler went
into Piora. I do not know when he first went there, nor
do I know when he saw, or suspected, in Piora things
which inspired him to write the passage about grace and
the law and St. Paul near the end of chapter ii. of Life
and Habit :
    And grace is best ; for where grace is, love is not distant.
Grace ! the old Pagan ideal whose charm even unlovely Paul
could not withstand ; but, as the legend tells us, his soul fainted
within him, his heart misgave him, and, standing alone on the
seashore at dusk, he troubled deaf heaven with his bootless cries,
his thin voice pleading for grace after the flesh.

        24o                          ST. PAUL                           x1v
  1876      The waves came in one after another, the sea-gulls cried
Aet. 40 together after their kind, the wind rustled among the dried canes
         upon the sandbanks, and there came a voice from heaven saying,
        " Let My grace be sufficient for thee." Whereon, failing of the
         thing itself, he stole the word and strove to crush its meaning to
        the measure of his own limitations. But the true grace, with
        her groves and high places, and troops of young men and maidens
        crowned with flowers, and singing of love and youth and wine—
        the true grace he drove out into the wilderness—high up, it
        may be, into Piora, and into such-like places. Happy they who
        harboured her in her ill report.
             This passage was connected in his mind with that
        other passage about the bells which he heard when he
        was on Montreal Mountain, quoted in the preceding
        chapter. It was a result of comparing the kind of people
        he met in Canada and elsewhere, who were under the
        law, with the kind of people he met in North Italy, who
        were under grace.           The passage from Life and Habit
        was written, and left intentionally, as a piece of fine prose ;
        and it is one of the few passages in Butler's books that
        were so written and left. But it is not ornament ; it
        forms an integral part of the structure of what he is
        saying ; finely placed and finely led up to, it leads finely
        into this paragraph, close to the end of the chapter :
            Above all things, let no unwary reader do me the injustice of
        believing in me. In that I write at all I am among the damned.
        If he must believe in anything, let him believe in the music of
        Handel, the painting of Giovanni Bellini, and in the thirteenth
        chapter of St. Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians.
             Here is St. Paul again, but what a different St. Paul !
        I remember being puzzled, and asking Butler how it was
        that unlovely Paul, who missed the true grace, neverthe
        less came to write the thirteenth chapter of the First
        Epistle to the Corinthians.           In reply to my question
        Butler quoted the words which the sea-captain had
        used in reply to his question about the stormy petrels
        (ante, p. 75).
             Butler was very fond of Piora.             In chapter vi. of
        Alps and Sanctuaries he has a dream there—a dream that
        was an amplification of the one he has when approaching

x1v                     DREAM-MUSIC                             241
Erewhon. In chapter ii. of Erewhon Chowbok prepares 1876
the statues and their music by imitating their appearance Aet. 40
and by moaning.          In chapter iii. Chowbok leaves him.
In chapter iv. he dreams of the organ in the wool-shed
with pipes like Fingal's cave and Handel playing on the
key-board ; but the music does not come till he wakes,
and then it is faint and distant. In chapter v. he reaches
the statues and hears the music properly.             He had no
doubt he had chosen the best piece of music that could
be found for the statues, but he was a long time making
up his mind what music to give to the dream-people in
the mountainous orchestra of Piora. Of course it must
be Handel. He thought of " Bid the maids the youths
provoke " from " Crown with festal pomp " in Hercules ;
but it seemed too obvious. It was not till after much
thoughtful searching that he found what he wanted :
" Then presently they rose and sang ' Venus laughing
from the skies.' "
      While abroad he wrote to Miss Savage, 4th June 1876:
     I don't think I was ever so fairly done up before ; but then
I have had the worst 3 years I ever had since the horrors of
childhood and boyhood. I am sure that there is nothing seriously
amiss with me and all's well that ends well. How are you, who
I fear have far more serious ground for complaining ?
     [I omit a silly sanguine page about the studies I was making
and what I should do with them when I came back. It makes
me sick to see what a fool I was—for it all came to nothing,
save to Alps and Sanctuaries years afterwards. — Sep. 1901,
Wassen, S. B.]
     I made a study of a church porch a day or two since. Going
out to lunch at the back of the church in the shade I came upon
a peasant woman, weeding corn, with whom I conversed.
Presently, wishing to make myself agreeable, I showed her my
study which I thought rather good. She looked at me imploringly,
threw out the palms of her hands as she knelt among the corn
and said :
     " Signore mio, son pratica far la contadina ma per la geografia
non son capace."
     I hear the Company is to smash on the 8th. It does not
 matter to me when it smashes for smash it certainly will. I have
 had to pay for my experience, but I believe I have bought an
 article which will last me my lifetime.
      VOL. I                                                 R

        242                 MISS SAVAGE'S BOOK                            x1v
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
  1876      6 "June 1876—I am very much puffed up, having just this
Aet. 40 minute received a P.O. for 15/- for an article for which I only
        expected 10/-. I have also a commission to write a book for
        £,10 \ It is to be called The Home Help to Ornamental Embroidery.
             By the by, I have not yet made your kettle-holder, but when
        you come home will give you a copy of my book, and then you
        will be able to make kettle-holders for yourself after one perusal.
         This is warranted. Please write to me very soon about your
        pictures, but do not trouble to write a letter unless you are very
        well, and have less to do than I know you have. Do you know
        that writing machines will soon be used by everybody ? But
        how stupid our letters will look all printed in capitals thus—
        YOURS TRULY,                                E. M. A. SAVAGE.
             Miss Savage wrote the book, Art Needlework : a guide
        to embroidery in crewels, silks, applique ; and a short history
        of the art of embroidery. It was published by Ward, Lock,
        & Tyler in 1877, and formed a volume of the Home
        Help Series. The author's name is given as E. Mase, a
        pseudonym constructed out of her initials with the final e
        of her surname added and accented, thus E. M.A.S.E., and
        Buder took care that the book was entered in the
        catalogue of the British Museum under both Savage and
        Mase. I believe it is the only published work by her
        except the (probably anonymous) articles she wrote for
        The Drawing Room Gazette, The Woman's Gazette, and
        perhaps other papers.          Of course Butler congratulated
        Miss Savage upon her book :
            . . . but still more do I congratulate the person who buys it.
        I shall have to look to my laurels. I don't know whether to
        wish that it may be long, so that I may have the more pleasure
        in reading it, or short, so that you may be the less poorly paid.
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
            August 1876 —I am writing at my book [Life and Habit]
        regularly, but it is all rough and notes and will want re-writing
        and re-arranging ; but I am getting a good deal of material
        together.
            The theory frightens me—it is so far-reaching and subversive
        —it oppresses me and I take panics that there cannot really be

x1v             PAINTING OR WRITING?                          243
any solid truth in it; but I have been putting down anything 1876
that it seems to me can be urged against it with as much force Aet. 40
as if I were a hostile reviewer, and really cannot see that I have
a leg to stand upon when I pose as an objector. Still, do what
I can, I am oppressed and frightened. I have had to read a
sermon of Bishop Butler's again [author of The Analogy}. And
here again I am oppressed and frightened when I reflect on the
fact that such a poor creature as he should have achieved so great
and so lasting an influence. However, as my cousin's laundress
says, " It will all come right in the wash."
     " My cousin " was Reginald Worsley, and his laundress
was Mrs. Boss, the old woman who looked after him in
his chambers, the original of Mrs. Jupp in The Way of
All Flesh (cf. chapter xxiv. post).
     Butler still considered himself a painter and hoped to
make money by selling pictures, but the book was
different ; money might come from the book, but the
book had to be done, money or no money. For the
writing interested him far more deeply than the painting,
and, as a consequence, the painting suffered. It had been
so before when he was writing Erewhon ; and now, again,
although he had done what he considered to be some
very decent water-colours while abroad, on his return to
London Life and Habit took possession of him, and with
regard to the painting he " drifted back to the fatal self-
deception of Heatherley's." Painting from the model
in the school was easy work compared with the com
position and invention of a picture, and his creative
faculties were fully occupied with Life and Habit. Prob
ably Heatherley's operated beneficially by taking him
off his literary work and providing a place of quiet rest
and meditation. But he would not have allowed himself
to use it in this way consciously ; he was still under the
impression that painting at Heatherley's helped him in
his profession as an artist.
     In this August Butler went to Langar for the last
time. In the autumn Canon Butler gave up the living
and retired with his younger daughter, Miss Butler, to
Shrewsbury.         Mrs. Bridges, his elder daughter, was
living at Ventnor, and moved to Shrewsbury and joined

         244                        LOSSES                              x1v
  1876 her father and sister a few years later. When the Butlers
Aet. 4.0 left Langar " the rooks deserted the rookery in the
         plantation behind the house where they had been ever
         since I could remember anything."
               The following letter was preliminary to Butler's first
         visit to his people at Wilderhope House, Shrewsbury.
         In giving Miss Savage his address there, he wrote :
         " They have gone to a house with a mocking name, but
         it is quite innocent. Wilderhope is a village near
         Shrewsbury ; several Shropshire villages end in ' hope.' "
                                Butler to his Father.
              20 Nov. 1876—As regards your other question, namely what
         I have lost in the Canada Tanning Extract Co. I have lost ^.3560 ;
         but your question suggests that you might be intending to make
         some proposal to me which might do something towards making
         it up to me, and this I should wish to say frankly I could not
         allow. I have always felt that, no matter who might say what,
         I have made what you originally gave me do me—and do me
         handsomely—without further burdening my friends, and it is so
         strongly my wish that this should continue to be the case that I
         am sure you will not again allude to the matter.
              I made no secret of my losses being very heavy, but I fancied
         there would have been always something in my manner which
         would suggest that I was not going to allow myself to be helped,
         and that I did not mention them with that view. Besides I could
         not allow myself to be helped without a full disclosure of my
         position and of the circumstances that have led to it for many
         years past ; these are such as I have no reason to regret or be
         ashamed of but they are such as I should not wish to disclose,
         though the day will come when I shall not have the smallest
         objection to their being known. This much, however, I may
         say : I owe nothing, no one has any lien of any kind over any
         thing I have ; I have not insured my life and borrowed money
         on my reversion ; I am under no sort of money obligation to any
         one except yourself in the first instance ; I do not in the least
         anticipate that I shall have occasion to do any of these things ;
         I have long ago submitted my position to my friend Jason Smith
          who knows all that has happened and who considers that I am
         now doing what is on the whole the wisest thing. If the worst
          comes to the worst I may have some day or other to insure my
          life and anticipate my reversion to a small extent, but I do not
          in the least believe that I shall ever have to do so, and I shall

x1v                    EXPLANATIONS                           245
make no secret of it if it should ever come to be necessary. 1876
What I must really look after is my health ; given that, and I Aet. 40
am under no anxiety, but if that fails me the position would be
more serious. My doctor tells me I am not strong but that
there is nothing wrong with me and I believe he is quite right.
    I have said the above because I did not wish to pass over your
question in silence nor without thanking you for your supposed
object in asking ; at the same time my writing will avoid mistake
and prevent the necessity for a verbal answer.
     In the foregoing letter Butler is putting the best face
he can on his financial position. The mysterious reference
to a possible disclosure of the circumstances that led to
his position means that Pauli's anticipated success at the
Bar, by justifying his action, would enable him to prove
that, though wrong about the companies, he had not
been wrong about everything. I doubt whether it was
judicious to refer to the matter ; I should think it alarmed
his father and made him suspicious ; but there is nothing
to show that any immediate harm came of it.

                                                                     *
                                CHAPTER XV
                                          1877
                                LIFE AND HABIT                         '..:
 1877 M1ss Savage's letters at this time were written with
A«. 41 tne intention of diverting Butler from his troubles.
       In January 1 877 he was complaining of the results of
       overwork.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
           [Late January 1 877] —"Tea and toast !" Nothing but tea
       and toast for a feverish attack ! I wish you were as gourmand as
       I am. I wish you could have had some of the delicious white
       soup I made, or rather caused to be made, for the club last week.
       I shall not tell you anything about it. I am sure I should
       not make your mouth water if I did. I believe you could read
       Francatelli right through from beginning to end without being
       moved in the smallest degree. Thank you for writing to me ;
       but, as I said, I am sure you are not kind to yourself. Why do
       you paint in your dreams ? Because you are vexed and angry
       with yourself for not being able to paint in the daytime ? " What
       a nonsense ! " as dear Miss Karstens used to say. In the first
       place, nobody can paint in the darkness we have been having,
       and, in the second place, it is time you had a week's idleness ;
       in fact, I think it is rather a lucky thing for you to be ill, if
       you would only take the matter in the right spirit, and look upon
       it not as an affliction but as a privilege to be forced to do nothing.
                         Let those who like it work and slave,
                            For 'tis their nature to ;
                         But the only boon that in life I crave
                            Is to have little or nothing to do.
           I have been much annoyed and bothered at the club, and am
       sorry to say that on one occasion I lost my temper. I mean that
                                           246


                 HIT
         are not
jfond p]
                 to be ,



  xv          MISS SAVAGE AND ALETHEA                           247
  I showed I lost it. I often do lose my temper, but can generally l877
  hide the fact ; which, as regards the general public, is of course   4I
  the same as not losing it at all. However, I soon recovered
  myself; and, since I said of my enemy that she combined the
 harmlessness of the serpent with the wisdom of the dove, I have
  been quite in charity with her and with all women.
       This is one of the things he took from Miss Savage
  and gave to Alethea. Here are three scraps from letters
 written about this time :
      I had a little accident the other day, being upset in a cab as
 I was going out to dine. No harm done except to my best gown,
 which suffered from my having to put my arms round the neck
 of a damp policeman who helped to pull me out. At first they
 tried to pull me out by the hair of my head, but I did not like
 that ; so the dye of the policeman's coat has come off on one of
 the sleeves of my best gown —and all the frillings and grillings
  round my arms being made of tulle (a material, as you know,
  principally composed of starch) hung down in sticky lumps. My
 little misfortune seemed to put everyone into good spirits ; and
 as the accident happened at the very door of the house I was
 going to, the thing could not have been better managed if it had
 been planned beforehand. . . .
      Do read Harriet Martineau's Life. It is such fun. . . .
      Here is' a story told by Mr. Meiklejohn, one of the Army
 examiners. He was putting a young man through a viva voce
examination in Hamlet, and asked : " What was the custom that
 was more honoured in the breach than in the observance ? "
"Matrimony " was the prompt reply.
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
     [n or 12 Feb. 1877]—No communication has passed between
us since I found the mysterious scrap of paper in my box a
fortnight ago. I could not have come, for I was engaged to
some people who are cottoning on to me and whom I do not like.
They are very rich and wanted me to go down into the country
with them ; and when I would not they sent a man-servant with
a beautiful narcissus growing and in full bloom, and are generally
boring me—and I have to go to them to-night. I shall tell the
man who let me in for them to take them away. There ought
to be some form of social separation as simple and void of offence
as introduction. If ever I go to Erewhon again (which I do not
suppose I ever shall, for I could never fill another volume or even

        248            ADVERTISEMENT PICTURE                                xv
  1877 half a volume) I shall introduce such a form, as one of the things
Aet. 41 I forg0t t0 mention.
            I am very well—seldom better in health—but getting more
        and more anxious about the future. If Life and Habit fails as
        The Fair Haven did, I do not know what will happen ; and I
        have a great and ever present source of oppression of which
        I cannot tell you or any one else. Pray do not allude to this ; I
        wish I had not written it.
            [This must allude to Pauli, who had treated me for many
        years very badly, and continued to do so till his death on Dec. 29,
        1897. I knew I was being cruelly treated, but how cruelly I
        never knew till after his death—when I could not even'forgive
        him, as I would have done.— 1901. S. B.]
            To turn to Life and Habit, it gets on but slowly. I have to
        rewrite so much ; but it shall be published before Xmas. I think
        the first 100 pp. are pretty well done. I am also at work on my
        advertisement picture. I was three mornings studying in the
        street itself from 8 to 9, and shall do so again this week. I have
        also got on with the water-colour at Thames Ditton.
             I remember seeing the " advertisement picture " in
        Butler's painting-room. It represented a group of coster-
        mongers having tea on a barrow at 5 o'clock in the
        morning in Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn, with a background
        of advertisements on a hoarding that cut the picture
        horizontally, and hid the building of the new Law Courts.
        Above the hoarding appeared the steeple of St. Clement
        Danes against a sky lit up by the rising sun. An odd
        and unlikely subject ; yet something might have been
        made of it if he had not been depressed and overworked.
        The picture was rejected by the Academy. In a note
        made on the foregoing letter he wrote of this picture :
             The figures were bad. I painted much of it out when I got
        it back—got it into a thorough mess—and in the end gave it to
        Gogin, who I trust may have destroyed it. The Thames Ditton
        water-colour I gave to Mrs. Danvers, some ten years later.
        [Sep. 12, 1 90 1. Wassen. S. B.]
                                Butler to Miss Savage.
             19 Mareh 1877—When will you come and see my picture?
        It is still very unfinished, but is advancing pretty fast, and I think
        I shall be able to send it in. I shall have the frame on Friday ;
        but come whenever you like.

xv             WRITING OR PAINTING ?                           249
     I have made "The Messiah" the central advertisement 1877
between "Nabob Pickles" and "Three Millions of Money," Aet. 41
with " The Messiah " much smaller than " Mr. Sims Reeves " and
"Signor Foli." It does not seem in the least pointed, and of
course I copied the advts from nature.
          Note by Butler on a letter from Miss Savage
                        10th March 1877.
     As regards this picture, which it plagues me even to think
of—I ought to have known that it was no good ; and I did
know, but I was too jaded even to admit it to myself. What
with Pauli, whom I believed to be even more in difficulties than
myself and who let me share and share down to the dregs of the
capital which I was now eating, nay, he had the lion's share—I
have written this story elsewhere, so say no more—what with
seeing ruin approaching and finding both literature and painting
to be broken reeds so far as selling was concerned ; what with
the relations between myself and my father and the really great
anxiety that Life and Habit was to me, I was not myself; and,
though I could write, I could not paint. Yet if I had been
contented with simple water-colour subjects, each drawing to
take a fortnight's work, instead of fagging at an ambitious
picture for months, I might have done fairly well. But, after
all, I suppose the truth was that I felt literature to be a more
tempting field, and one better worth trying to excel in, than
painting ; nor, in spite of the very great distress and difficulties
of the years 1877-1886, do I think I was mistaken. I do not
think that anything I could have done as a painter could have
been as well worth doing as what I have done in writing ; so finis
coronat opus. All's well that ends well. [13th Sept. 190 1. S. B.]
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     27 April 1877—Your letter was forwarded to me down at
Shrewsbury—hence my delay in answering it. I am better ;
 but have been working very hard since my return, and the three
 days I had in Shrewsbury were poor in quality and not enough
 in quantity ; however, I will attend to myself, and get all right
again. All my pictures are rejected ; so are all M'Culloch's,
 which last, I am sure, will be better than a great deal that will
 be hung. I am working at my book again regularly, and go
to the Brit. Mus. Reading Room every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, from ten till one. I like it immensely, and wonder
why I never went there before. I sit at letter B (B for Butler),
or, if I cannot get there, at letter C.

        2 so                  BRITISH MUSEUM                              xv
  1877      I hope I am painting better and that I have made a fresh
Aet. 41 start ; but I have hoped this many times already and nothing seems
        to come of it.
              Miss Savage replied sympathising about the rejected
        pictures and, after abusing the Academy, continued :
              Nevertheless I hope you got into a passion and swore.
              I am glad you like the Museum ; I always told you it was
        delightful ; I shall begin to go there again next week because
        it is open till 6 o'clock. I never hardly go till the afternoon, so,
        as you go away early, I shall get you to leave your place for me—
        only you must sit at letter G—I am miserable anywhere else—and
        facing the south-west.
             I chose letter G when I first went to the Museum because it
        was at an equal distance from Miss Karstens and Miss Andrews,
        and the furthest pole apart from Miss Pearson (Miss Pearson is
        going to nurse the wounded Russians ; she went to nurse the
        wounded Servians, which was the reason why Servia so promptly
        made peace with Turkey) and my heart clings fondly to the
        place ; but as I go late I often have to sit somewhere else and
        sometimes can't find a place at all. So how glad I shall be, and
        how grateful to you, if you give me the reversion of your place.
        You can leave an old hat on the desk—No, an old hat won't do :
        I should accumulate old hats. Well, I shall think of something
        else.
             You must let me come some day and see your picture now
        that it is finished. I am not well—in fact I am ill and should go
        to the doctor, only he always jeers at me in an unfeeling way.
             [I should fear that the malignant cancer, of which she died,
        had already made itself apparent, for it was external, not internal ;
        but she never gave me so much as a hint that there was anything
        beyond general indisposition the matter with her. She never
        from the first had looked a healthy woman, but I set that down
        to the hip disease that had so lamed her.—Wassen, 14 Sept.
        1901. S. B.]
              He was in the Canton Ticino again from the middle
        of May to the end of July, and must have been pretty
        well in his physical health, for he thought nothing of
        walking in a day from Mendrisio to the top of Monte
        Bisbino and back via Sagno. Some of his time he gave to
        Life and Habit, but most of it to sketching and painting.

xv                             FAIDO                              251
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
                                        Hotel Dell' Ancelo, Fa1do,
                                       Canton T1c1no, Sw1tzerland.
                                             SunJ. June 10, 1877.
     Dear M1ss Savage—A few lines to ask how you are, and to 1877
say I am a hundred times better than when I left England.             Aet. 41
     [ I do not believe I should have lived through the next nine and
 a half years if I had not insisted on giving myself a two months'
 holiday abroad every summer, and as many smaller outings as I.
 could get. I had to borrow money on every penny of security
 I could command in order to do this, but I do not believe I could
 have acted more wisely. Of course I paid interest punctually to
 the day and repaid the principal immediately on the death of my
 father. Thus I rubbed through a long and very depressing
 time, which I do not believe I could have done without periods
 of long and complete change of environment.—Sep. 14th,
  1901. S. B.]
     On wet days I paint in the monastery — not a very nice
 subject, but the nicest I could see on the spur of the moment.
 I see the last monks, like the last wolves and bears in a country,
 are a degenerate lot. These monks, except the guardiano, are
 more stupid and ignorant than I should have supposed possible.
 The novice is a great creature ; he attacks me bitterly about my
 religion and I assure him that protestantism is as dear to me as
 catholicism is to him. When he learned that I took the sacra
 ment without salt he wrung his hands and said : " O poveretto,
 poveretto, quanto e sbagliato ! "
     The guardiano is better—he gives me kirschen wasser. At
 Prato, in the church porch, I have to undergo a heavy fire from
 the curato ; but one day a happy thought occurred to me, and I
 said that the only form of religion which struck me as wholly
 monstrous was Old Catholicism. Since then we have been
 friends.—Yours very truly,                              S. Butler.
                        Butler to Miss Savage.
      14 Aug. 1877—I came back on Saturday even1ng —very well.
 I wrote once, but did not hear at all. I should have written
 again, but I assure you I was working very hard, and put off
 letter-writing as much as I could. I am well aware that I am
 a bad lot—but I know what my friends do not know, and what
 I cannot tell them—and am such as I am. When shall I
 see you ?
     [I never had such a good chance of seeing my past self, not
 vaguely, but with the documentary evidence of my own hand

        252                        REMORSE                              xv
  1877 writing ; and I am shocked at the selfishness which pervades all
Aet. 41 rny letters, and the marvellous unselfishness which pervades all
        Miss Savage's. How patient under suffering she was I never
        knew till after her death ; but what pains me most as I edit this
        correspondence —the only thing that I can do to express the
        remorse I feel as strongly now as I did when she died nearly
        twenty years ago—what pains me most is to see the way in
        which, all through, I was thinking of myself and my own doings,
        while taking no heed, letter after letter, of things she had told
        me about her own. I cannot think how she stood me so long
        and with such unshaken fidelity. Why, again, did she not scold
        me and tell me I was the selfish conceited brute which I certainly
        was, and probably am still ? It would have done me a great deal
        of good —for I cannot think Miss Savage would have stuck to
        me as she did unless I was capable of being convinced of sin.
        However, in the following letter I was more crassly, crudely
        selfish and clumsy than in any I have yet come to ; and poor
        Miss Savage was hurt. I should suppress my own offence ; but,
        if I did, I should have to suppress her admirable, at once, rebuke
        and pardon. As penance I give as much of my letter as will
        explain Miss Savage's.— 14th Sept. 1901. S. B.]
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
             Br1t. Mus. 14 Sept. 1877—[Strange coincidence, exactly 24
        years ago.—S. B. 14 Sep., 1901. After writing nonsense about
        my book and painting I said—to my shame :]
             I fear I have frightened you from writing as frequently as
        you once did, by telling you, as I did not long since, that I kept
        your letters. You were once, some years ago, decidedly hurt
        with me when I told you I had burned your letters. Your letters
        are far the best I have ever read, much less [should have been
        " more " S. B.] received ; how I could ever have burnt one of them
        I cannot conceive, but alas ! I did. Perhaps it is because I have
        lost them that I imagine that they were written with greater
        care than any that I have received since ; but now that I have
        told you I keep them, you hardly write at all. I will compromise.
        I will keep your letters, but put them together and address them
        to yourself so that on my death they may be returned to you.

xv              WRITING "WITH CARE"                              253
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
              WITH CARE I THIS SIDE UP.
                                            22 Beaumont Street, W.
                                                  Sep. 15, 1877.
     Dear Mr. Butler—It must be confessed that I am a most 1877
unreasonable person. What! I leave off writing "with care" Aet. 41
when I hear that you don't keep my letters, and I don't write
at all when you tell me that you do ! Well, it only shows that
I am a true Erewhonian, and have studied in the schools to good
purpose. But you are mistaken when you talk about my being
hurt when you told me you burned my letters. On the contrary,
I felt relieved ; and I am sure you can have only a very hazy
recollection of the matter, or you would not have recalled a very
unpleasant moment of my existence.
     [I did not understand at the time and have often since vainly
wondered what this means. I remember nothing but telling her
that I burned her letters. There must have been something
that led up to this which pained her in a manner that I did not
perceive. I have no recollection beyond the mere fact of saying
that I burned her letters.—Sep. 14, 190 1. S. B.]
     And now, my dear Mr. Butler, let me give you a little good
advice. If you wish to make yourself agreeable to the female sex,
never hint to a woman that she writes or has written " with
care." Nothing enrages her so much ; and it is only the
exceptional sweetness of my disposition that enables me (with
some effort, I confess) to forgive this little blunder on your part.
     As a matter of fact, I don't care what becomes of my letters.
Keep them or burn them as you please ; only for goodness sake
don't label them to be returned to me at your death. If you do,
 I shall never write to you without thinking of your death and
that I cannot bear to think of.
     Besides, you assume that I shall live the longest, which is
 flattering to my vital forces, but suppose I die first ? What will
 become of my letters then ? Pray let every contingency be
 prepared for and provided against while we are arranging the
 matter.
     But I must go. I have to meet Mr. Barton at 3 o'clock to
 go to Greenwich with him. Lucky man ! he has had a legacy
 of old china left him ; and, as he is in the matter of pottery and
 porcelain the most misinformed man I know, I am going to see
 it and instruct him as to its value. I am longing dreadfully to
 read some more of your book. When may I have some ?—
 Yours very truly,                               E. M. A. Savage.

         254            "STUPID AND CLUMSY"                                  xv
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
                                                     15 Cl1fford's Ink, E.C.
                                                          Sep. zo, 1877.
  1877       Dear M1ss Savage—I have been stupid and clumsy, and am
Aet. 41 very sorry for it. It is very good of you to have forgiven me so
         generously. I did not write sooner lest I should be stupid again
        —I mean more stupid than usual in some attempt—quite vain—
         to show that I had not been stupid.
             You ask after the book [Life and Habit] ... By the end of
         next week I shall have 120 pp. quite finished. I shall run it
         down at the rate of about 15 pp. a week, allowing for re-writing
         and corrections, as I go every day to the Museum now till pne.
         When I have 150 pp. done, i.e. about October 20, I shall go to
         press.
             I believe the book will succeed and am now thoroughly
        absorbed in it. I suspect, now that I have found out the Museum,
         I shall never be long without a new book on hand and shall get
        them off pretty rapidly. . . . Yours very truly,
                                                                S. Butler.
             [Here my life as an art-student, for I never was more, may be
        said to end. It fizzled out ; but I shall paint from time to time,
        chiefly in water-colours. I have three on hand here now.
          -Wassen, Sep. 14, 1901. S. B.]
              He was no longer an artist with a taste for literature ;
        he had become a literary man with a taste for art ; and
        his discovery of the British Museum Reading Room may
        have had something to do with his acquiescing in the
        change. Formerly it had been his practice to go to
        Heatherley's in the morning, unless he worked in his
        painting-room, finding that at home, whether painting or
        writing, he was subject to too frequent interruptions.
        He now spent his mornings writing in peace in the
        Museum, surrounded by all the books he wanted for
       reference ; and he never gave up the habit.
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
             Sep. 26, 1877—[I omit a page of criticism on some of the
        MS. of Life and Habit—always sensible. —S. B.] I am very
        busy with the club just now ; we are coming back to Berners
        Street immediately—in fact we are back there, but the club will

XV                          NERVES                              255
not be open till next Wednesday. Please give me a Fair Haven 1877
and an Erewhon for it. We mean to take in The Church Times Aet. 41
and The Jewish Chronicle ; and, therefore, having provided for the
pious, they cannot complain if we provide for ourselves too. I
hope you are quite well—you write as if you were. I went to
the Promenade Concert last Wednesday to see the little candles
blown out. As there was to be some Handel, I looked about for
you ; but only succeeded in seeing Zerbini, who seemed as much
delighted with the little candles as I was.
     I have not been well. I don't sleep. I have a clock in my
room that ticks very loud, and gets quite frantic when it strikes
the hour. But I mean to be like the old lady who would eat
lobster in Erewhon, and whom you ruthlessly cut out of the
book. I mean to see which is the strongest, I or my nerves.
At present my nerves seem to be getting the best of it, and I
very nearly stopped the creature last night ; but I do not mean
to give in yet.
      Blowing out the little candles means, no doubt, that
the programme included Haydn's Symphony, The Farewell,
which comes to an end gradually by the performers, one
after the other, blowing out their candles and leaving the
orchestra.
                     Miss Savage to Butler.
                                  Berners Club, 64 Berners Street.
                                         Oct. 6th (Sat.), 1877.
     My dear Mr. Butler—Many thanks for your letter just
received. It is very kind of you to write [I cannot find this
letter, but may do so later.—S. B. Wassen, Sep. 16, 1901J, and
very, very unkind of you not to let me have some more book. I
went to the Museum the other day with the intention of carrying
off some MS. by main force, to say nothing of persuasion ; but
like some other foolish persons, renowned in story, I found the
door locked and Messrs. Garnett, Bullen, Granville, etc., all
away at a Congress. It is a very extraordinary fact that when
ever I particularly want to go to the Museum it shuts up. So
then I determined that I would seek you in your own stronghold,
and wrote yesterday to announce a visit this afternoon. It was
afterwards arranged, however, that I must stay here, to receive a
furniture broker, so I did not send the letter.
     You are quite right when you are sanguine about the book
and quite wrong when you are despondent.
     [No, my dear Miss Savage, the book failed ; it has not even
now quite paid its expenses ; it was allowed to pass sub silentio.

        256              SUCCESS AND FAILURE                             xv
  1877 There was no attempt to meet it, but abundant attempts to
Aet. 41 adopt its conclusions without acknowledgment. When I say the
        book failed, I mean only commercially ; and at that time com
        mercial success was of the highest importance to me. In all
        other respects I consider it to have been a great success ; and
        with all its many faults that I can now see, as well as those
        which as yet I do not see, I rejoice at having had it vouchsafed
        me to write it.—S. B., Sep. 16th, 1901.]
            / have no doubt whatever about its success. Success is
        cumulative. Erewhon would make this successful even if it were
        not successful on its own account — I mean, of course, com
        mercially successful.
            [So we all thought and hoped, and the fact that almost any
        one in my place would have thought and hoped the same must be
        my excuse for going on eating up the dregs of my capital, and
        continuing to write. It was plain that writing was my strongest
        card ; and I had not yet realised either Mr. Darwin's character,
        or his irresistible hold on the public. I have since found out
        that if success is cumulative, failure is cumulative also ; and for
        the last twenty years each one of my books has failed—of course
        I only mean commercially, for I admit no failure in any other
        respect—more completely than its predecessor.—S. B., Sep. 16,
        1901.]
            As to literary success I hope you don t think I believe you
        when you say you are despondent, because I don't. I am certain
        you think it will be successful in that sense, and I am certain you
        are quite right. If you don't think so, more shame for you.
            [I don't think I ever said or wrote anything that implied
        doubt in my own mind as to the substantial merits of the book—
        but I may have said something in some lost letter that looked
        like this.—S. B.]
            Thanks for your enquiries after my nerves. They are quite
        well and victorious. The clock belonged to the club and has
        now come back to it. But the night before it left I had the
        sweetest nine hours of sleep that ever any mortal enjoyed. I
        must confess, though, that I swathed the creature in flannel,
        so that the row it made was somewhat subdued. Good-bye—
        Yours very truly,                              E. M. A. Savage.
             Since Butler's two visits to Mr. Darwin at Down in
         1872, although he was never invited again, he continued
        to be on friendly terms with Mr. Francis Darwin ; they
        often met in London, sometimes dining together and
        going to a concert. On 26th September 1877, Mr. Francis
         Darwin called on Butler and lunched with him in Clifford's

xv                         FRANCIS DARWIN                                             257
Inn, afterwards writing him a letter, "September or "877
October 1877," on which Butler made a note ; it is not et.41
necessary to reproduce the letter, but this is the note :
      He had called on me on Sep. 26, only a few days before I got
the above, and had said that the theory that had pleased him
more than any he had lately met with was one referring all the
phenomena of life or heredity—I forget the exact words—to
memory. I said that this was precisely what I was doing. He
then said that Prof. Ray Lankester had written a letter to Nature
on the subject, but he could not remember exactly when. I said
I should not read it as my book was too far advanced and it
might unsettle me. I wrote, however, afterwards and asked if
he could give me some idea when Ray Lankester's letter had
appeared. The above is his answer, but he never sent the
reference. I did not look at the indices to Nature ; though I
was daily at the Brit. Mus. I was too much frightened to do so.
But when Life and Habit had been published some 5 or 6
weeks I looked it up, and at once called attention to it in The
Athenaeum. [S. B. Oct. 19, 1901.]
                         Butler to Francis Darwin}
      [I have written this in copying ink, and press a copy because
I am sure I shall never again be at the pains of writing the steps
by which my book came to be what it is, but am not sorry to
have a record of them.—S. B.]
                                        15 Cl1fford's Inn, Fleet Street, E.C.
                                                          Nov. 25, 1877.
      Dear Darw1n—I am going down home this week, but
expect that before I return my book will be out ; it has been
vexatiously delayed by printers, but should leave the binders on
Thursday or Friday, and I have left instructions that two copies
shall be at once sent you—one of which, if you think fit after
reading it, you will perhaps be kind enough to give to your
father.
      I confess that I do not like the thought either of his seeing
it, or of your doing so ; for it has resolved itself into a downright
attack upon your father's view of evolution, and a defence of
what I conceive to be Lamarck's. I neither intended nor wished
this, but was simply driven into it. I should like, if you will
pardon me, to state how and why I did not say more to you on
this head when I saw you last.
    1 The references to The Origin of Sfecies in this letter are to the Sixth Edition, with
Additions and Corrections to 1872 (Eighteenth thousand) : John Murray, 1876.
       VOL. I                                                                     S

        258                         MIVART                              xv
 1877       Two or three days before I saw you a man had insisted on
A«. 41 my reading Mivart's book [The Genesis of Species], and sent me
       a copy. I read it, and, when I saw you, had got through about a
       quarter of it. I at once felt that something was wanted to give
       an aim to variations, and, if you remember, I said I felt this. I
       then got your father's last edition of the Origin, which I had not
       looked at for some years, having lent my own copy to some one
        who had not returned it.
            I read the answers to Mivart, some of which were convincing
       but others did not seem to me to be so. Then I read on and
       came to the chapter on instinct. On p. 206 I was horrified to
       read, " It would be a serious error, etc." This cut at the very.
       root of what I was doing, and I feh as though I had better burn
       my MS. at once. I finished the chapter, and was, I need not
       say, even more sure than before that I must have blundered ;
       the conclusion on p. 233, " I am surprised, etc.," knocked me
       out of time I can assure you. This was the first I had ever
       heard of the doctrine of inherited habit—which I had conceived
       was the new feature of my own book—and now to find that it was
       a stale old theory of the exploded Lamarck, and that it was
       demonstrably impossible, when my book was three parts done,
        was, I can assure you, no small blow.
           On thinking it over, however, I was again met with the
       weight of evidence in favour of structure and habit being mainly
       due to memory, and, accordingly, gathered what I could from
       encyclopedias of what Lamarck had said. Also I read as much
       about bees and ants as I could lay my hands on, and in a little
       time saw my way again. I had no t1me to read Lamarck, but
       shall do so at once, and, I think, translate him—unless I find that
       he has been translated already, but let that pass.
           Then, reading your father more closely, and, I may add, more
       sceptically, the full antagonism between him and Lamarck came
       for the first time before me ; and I saw plainly that there was no
       possibility of compromise between the two views. Then I fell
       to analysing your father's answers to miscellaneous objections
       more closely, and was met (and this time brought up) by the
       passage on p. 171, "In the earlier editions, etc.," on which I
       have been very severe in my own book—but simply from the
       necessities of my own position ; for either your father or Lamarck
       and, hence, I, is or am on a very mistaken track, and the matter
       must be fought out according to the rules of the game.
           Then I went through the earlier part of my book, and cut
       out all support of natural selection and made it square with a
       teleological view—for such, I take it, Lamarck's is, and only
       different from Paley's in so far as the design with Paley is from
       without, and with Lamarck from within. Feeling, therefore,

XV                         LAMARCK                             259
that if I was in for a penny I might as well be in for a pound, 1877
I wrote about your father's book exactly as I should have done Aet. 41
about any one else's, bearing in mind his immense services and
his age as compared with my own. In one passage only have I
been disrespectful—that is when I say that "domestic produc
tions " may mean anything from a baby to an apple dumpling ;
but I could not resist, and can only say that it was not I that did
it, but sin that was working in me. In the other passages I
have been exceedingly, I hardly like to say "severe," but this is
the word I should have used if I were your father's equal in age
and knowledge. Nevertheless, I have always admitted, and in
such way as to leave no sense of arriere pensee, the inestimable
service which he has conferred upon us by teaching us to believe
in evolution ; though maintaining that he has led us to believe in
it on grounds which I, for my own part, cannot accept.
     What I imagine that I have added to Lamarck (though I
make no shadow of doubt that, if it is true, either Lamarck will
be found to have said it, or else that some one else will have done
so—still I do not know where to find it) is that I have pointed
out the bona fide character of the continued personality between ^—
successive generations, and the bona fide character of the memory
on the part of the offspring of its past existences in the persons
of its forefathers ; and have connected this with the vanishing
tendency of consciousness, and the phenomena of the abeyance
and recurrence of memory.
     With these additions (if they are additions) I cannot see that
Lamarck's system is wrong. As for " natural selection," frankly,
it now seems to me a rope of sand as in any way accounting for
the origin of species. Of course I am strengthened in my opinion
by seeing that it [Life and Habit] reduces to a common source
the sterility of hybrids ; the sterility of many wild animals under
domestication ; all variation (as being only a phase of sterility
itself—or rather the only alternative left to a creature under
greatly changed conditions if the changes are not great enough
to induce sterility) ; the phenomena of growth and metagenesis ;
the phenomena of old age ; and a lot more which I see at present
too uncertainly to venture to commit myself to paper concerning
them.
     I was obliged to leave the pangenesis chapters out, as I was
anxious to keep my book as short as possible, and it grew very
rapidly on my hands towards the end. Moreover, what you told
me about the review in Nature determined me to " hurry up."
     Well, I hope you will forgive the inordinate length of this
letter. If you remember, a few days after seeing you I wrote
that I was afraid I should have to differ from your father, not
a little only, but seriously and fundamentally. I had finished

         260                   THE RIGHT SIDE                                *t
  1877 Mivart's boolc between your visit and my letter. As I went on I
Aet. 41 felt that I hardly need again write and say, " I am differing more
         fundamentally " ; in fact, there was nothing for it but to go
         ahead—the only thing would be to explain to you that, when
         I saw you, I had not yet begun to write the last five chapters of
         my boolc, and had only just begun to see that I might have to
         fell foul of natural selection. Also I should like to assure you,
        and your father through you, that I have been, and am, a good
        deal exercised in mind about the whole matter.
              Nothing would surprise me less than to see something sprung
        upon me in reviews and answers which cuts the ground com
        pletely from under me ; and, of course, I neither expect nor give
        quarter in a philosophical argument. We want to get on to the
        right side ; and neither your father, I take it, nor I care two
       straws how we get on to the right side so long as we get there.
        Neither do we want half refutations nor beatings about the bush.
       We want to come to an understanding as to what is true and
       what false as soon as possible ; and we know well that we score
       more by retracting after we have been deeply committed, than by
       keeping on to our original course when a new light has been
       presented to us. So you must not be surprised if I am myself
       among the first to turn upon my new book and rend it, as I
       shall assuredly do, if I find, as I probably shall, that it is naught.
             [Then followed an erasure of over four lines.]
             Please excuse this erasure. Its purport was to say how sorry I
       was that your father should have been at school under my grand
       father, inasmuch as I myself should dislike an attack from a son
       or grandson of Kennedy s, when I should not care twopence about
       it from any one else.—Believe me, yours very truly,
                                                                S. Butler.
                            Francis Darwin to Butler.
             [Undated, but received by me about Nov. 28, 1877.]
             Dear Butler—Many thanks for your interesting letter; I
       am very glad to hear a history of the evolution of your book, and
       I shall be very eager to see it. It will, at least, differ from
       Mivart, and, I imagine, from Lamarck, in having some fun in it !
             I confess to feeling lost in astonishment at your saying that
       you have cut out all support to natural selection, and also that
       you consider it a rope of sand. I suppose from this that you
       deny any effect to natural selection ? If so, you must find it
       rather a hard position to hold, I should guess. Because, of course,
       you have to deny that such a thing as variations occur. For if
       you allow that variations occur you must allow that heredity is
       the rule, variations being only occasional lapses in perfect heredity.

xv                     LIFE AND HABIT                            261
 I suppose I am stereotyped from my education and association ; 1877
 but it does seem to me that if you grant this, it is logically Aet. 42
impossible to say that natural selection has no effect.
     As to natural selection not being able to act on minute
beginnings of things, I think the falseness of Mivart's argument
{Genesis of Sp. chapter it.) is shown by applying it to man's
selection which we see before our eyes at work. He might argue,
" Variations are infinitely small by Mr. Darwin's own showing
—but man cannot distinguish organisms differing by infinitely
small degrees ; therefore, man's selection cannot take place." I
think if Mivart had been more of a naturalist instead of an
anatomist he would not have dared to think that he could gauge'
natural selection's power of discrimination. I hope I am only
setting up nine-pins and trying to knock them down again, and
that you are not so desperate in your denials as I fear. Anyhow,
I am sure I shall enjoy your book very much ; even if you are
severe it will be sure to be a pleasant severity.—Yours sincerely,
                                                Franc1s Darw1n.
      Life and Habit was published on Butler's birthday,
4th December 1877, and the dedication runs thus :
     This book is inscribed to Charles Paine Pauli, Esq., Barrister-
at-Law, in acknowledgment of his invaluable criticism of the
proof-sheets of this and of my previous books and in recognition
of an old and well-tried friendship.
      Miss Savage, to whom he sent a copy of the book, at
once wrote a long letter, of which I give only the con
clusion :
     5 Dec. 1877—I was unpunctual this morning because I was
kept by an old lady at the club, who came to the place, and I
could no more leave it than a spider can leave her web before the
fly is well secured [see Appendix, p. 262]. I did secure my fly ;
she has sent her subscription since ; she was so eager to join that I
had not much trouble in coiling my web about her—but her
eagerness was not quite complimentary. " I like this place," she
said, " it is so homely," and then she looked at me and said it was
"so homely," meaning, alas! shabby, and I felt shabby. She
was dressed in sables and rich velvet (by the by how sleek and
new you looked this morning ! such a beautiful new coat ! ).
Then she looked at a very much worn spot in the carpet, and
said it was " homely." I think she is only going to join that she
may tell us we are " homely."
     Then she said, "Now I must tell you about myself: I am
the first cousin of Sir Eardley Wilmot. ' Here I assumed such

        262                       "ST. LEWIS"                               xv
  1877 a religious expression of face that a member of the club who was
Aet. 42 present had to rush out of the room ; and I have not been able to
        convince her since that if I did look religious it was because I
        felt so. Next to a lord I revere a baronet—particularly one with
        large estates in Warwickshire, which, it seems, Sir £. W. has.
        I really get a good deal of fun out of the club ; my time and
        trouble are not all for nothing. Some of the letters of recom
        mendation are very amusing. One lady was described by her
        referee as "a lady of genius combined with unimpeachable
        respectability." My curiosity to see this lady was, as you may
        imagine, great ; but I have since seen her frequently, and have
        been unable to find anything remarkable about her except that
        she invariably drops her h's. Whether this is due to the genius
        or the respectability I have not yet made out. Another referee says
        he hopes that if he says that the lady is a dear sister of his, it wall
        be a sufficient guarantee. You will not be surprised to hear that
        this gentleman is an assistant-master in a public school.
              Thursday. I began this letter at 10 p.m. last night ; it is
        now 2 p.m. and I have done nothing else but it. I hope you
        will consider that it is written with sufficient care for posterity.
        I may never be able again to give 14 hours to a composition, so
        good-bye.
             P.S.—Who is St. Lewis mentioned on page 292 ? Do you
        mean St. Louis ? Take heed, or you will be talking soon of the
         Empress Eugenia, or John James Rousseau.
                                       Append1x
             If you keep this letter for posterity, please correct the natural
        history, and please scratch out " secured " and write " enmeshed "
        or "enwebbed"; either of these words will give an air of
        distinction to the phrase. Salts of lemon will take out the
         smudge of ink.
              I have read the book from cover to cover. It is too, too, too
        delicious.
              Tell me of the reviews, which of course I should like to read.
         I see the Times, Telegraph, Evening Standard, Athenaeum, White
         hall, John Bull, Chureh Times, and National Reformer ; I only
         read the Times regularly, but see all these papers.
             We have no Bible in the club. Do you know any one who
         would give us one ? We have the Koran, and selections from
         the Talmud, and a book of Lives of the Saints, but no Bible. I
         think of writing to a Society, saying that our reference library is
         incomplete without one, and asking for one as a gift. Don't
        you think that such a letter would make a pleasing impression on
         the committee of a Bible Society ?

xv               F. DARWIN'S CRITICISM                           263
     I am not sure that Miss Savage is not being just a 1877
shade pedantic about St. Louis and St. Lewis. We speak et- 42
freely of Joan of Arc in English, to say nothing of St.
John, St. James, and plenty more. I have an Italian
calendar wherein the 25th August is given to "S. Luigi
Re," and I suppose the Germans translate his name into
Ludwig. Whether pedantic or not, however, I am glad
she wrote as she did, because Butler, accepting the
criticism, replied characteristically : " That blunder about
St. Lewis is awful ; and yet perhaps, after all, it is as
well not to know how a saint's name should be spelt."
                   Francis Darwin to Butler.
                                 Down, Beckenham.    Dec. 28, 1877.
    My dear Butler—I have been a long time in writing to
thank you for your book, which I have read with great pleasure.
I think all the analogy or identity between memory and heredity
is very well worked out. Have you ever read Huxley's article or
articles on " Animal Automatism," two or three years ago in the
Contemporary f He tried to show that consciousness was some
thing superadded to nervous mechanism, like the striking of a
clock is added to the ordinary going parts. I mean that the
consciousness as we know it has nothing to do with the act,
which is a mere question of nerve-machinery.
     You seem to me to have gone on the reverse tack—instead of
reducing consciousness to a passive looker-on you have, I think,
made consciousness into an active cause, a producer of energy.
I should have agreed with you more if you had said that memory
and reproduction (or growth) are both consequences of the same
property of matter— the property which makes a series of
molecular states follow each other in a certain order because they
have done so before. Applied to nervous or centralising power
it becomes memory or habit ; applied to a growing cell it is
heredity or growth. As to a particular form I quite think that
memory or hereditary growth becomes indistinguishable, but I
shouldn't call one by the name of the other ; one does not say
that the me of to-day inherits its power of winding up its watch
from the me of yesterday. I don't think I quite understand what
your objection to natural selection is. I don't see how intelligent
variation will help you, for instance, to make the beginnings of
limbs grow out of a limbless animal. The animal wouldn't be
such a fool as to want more papillae if they are no good—but if
they are of any good, natural selection can act on them. It seems

        264                DIGESTING CRITICISM                                xv
  1877 to me that being personally identical with all the people you
Aet. 42 have been is a different thing from being identical with all those
        you are going to be. The inventor of the telephone may be
        a lineal descendant of, and therefore personally identical with, the
        man (Thales ?) who rubbed a bit of amber and attracted a bit of
        pith ; but no one supposes that he investigated amber and pith
        in the hopes of making a telephone. He couldn't have wishes so
        utterly beyond his private (own + ancestral) experience. Perhaps
        I have been taking your meaning too literally, but it looks to me
        as if you thought that a fish consciously desired lungs when its
        air-bladder began to turn into one.
             I have written this rather at random ; and if I have pitched
        into you it isn't that I don't like your book, because I do, very
        much. There is a great deal of excellent fun, like the " body of
        the late frog," and the acetic acid, about Wiltshire—and the corn
        being eaten by the hen, which is especially good. My father
        hasn t read it yet. Don't trouble yourself to answer this.—Yours
        ever,                                          Franc1s Darw1n.
             P.S.—Why do you call Animals and Plants, Plants and
        Animals ? and the Origin, Natural Selection ?
             [I did this simply from haste and brain fag.—S. B.]
                             Butler to Francis Darwin.
                                       15 Cl1fford's Inn, E.C. Dec. 29, 1877.
             Dear Darw1n—One line to thank you for yours of this
        morning, which I confess was rather a relief to me, as I was
        afraid you might have considered Life and Habit unpardonable.
             Pitch into it and into me by all means. You cannot do me
        a greater service than to bundle me neck and crop out of my
        present position ; this is what I try to do to those from whom I
*-      differ, and this is what I wish them to do if they think it worth
        while.
             I have not yet thoroughly digested your remarks this morning
        received, but shall do so with every desire to assimilate nutriment
        therefrom. I will say nothing, therefore, anent them now.
             Of course, when I wrote, I knew that much of what I was
        writing was crude, and would require alteration [I wrote this
        because F. D.'s letter had fogged and frightened me, and I did not
        know what else might not be coming. I was oppressed and
        scared by the far-reachingness and daring of what I had done,
        but I see nothing that I need care to alter, except that here and
        there I should like to shorten.—S. B. Oct. 23, 1901], but I did
        not see my way further then ; and felt that, such as the book

xv          RESUME OF LIFE AND HABIT                             265
was, it must stand or fall for the present. Reviews and criticisms 1877
would guide me as to my subsequent course. There have been Aet. 42
no notices yet, but the book is selling well, and has given a fillip
to The Fair Haven (a very small one), which has surprised and
pleased me. Erewhon has always sold more or less, but does not
seem to have received the same fillip that The Fair Haven has.
     I have nearly finished Lamarck, and am to write a review and
quasi-digest of his Philosophie Zoologique for the Contemporary.
[This never came off".—S. B.]           I am sorry I called Animals
and Plants, Plants and Animals. It was a slip. I did not know
I had called the Origin, Natural Selection. It was very stupid ;
I will look out for the place and correct it. Thank you for
calling my attention to it. I hope I have not misquoted any
passage.
     With many thanks for your letter, I am, yours very truly,
                                                      S. Butler.
     Resume of L1fe and Habit, wr1tten by Butler-
                               1n 1883
     The theory contained in this work turns upon four main
propositions : Firstly, that there is a bona fide oneness of person
ality existing between parents and offspring up to the time that
the offspring leaves the parent's body. Secondly, that in virtue
of this oneness of personality the offspring will remember what
has happened to the parent so long as the two were united in one
person, subject, of course, to the limitations common to all memory.
Thirdly, that the memory so obtained will, like all other memory,
lie dormant until the return of the associated ideas. Fourthly,
that the structures and instincts which are due to the possession
of this memory will, like every other power of manufacture or
habit due to memory, come in the course of time to be developed
and acted upon without self-consciousness.
     The phenomena of heredity with its exceptions (such as
 reversion to a remote ancestor, and sports) ; the principle under
 lying longevity ; the infecundity of hybrids ; the phenomena of
old age ; the resumption of feral characteristics ; and the fact
 that the reproductive system is generally the last thing to be
 developed are then connected and shown to be explicable and,
 indeed, to follow as matters of course, under the joint operation
 of the four principles contended for. There has been no attempt
to meet this work ; and I observe the theory it contains to be
frequently, but always tacitly, adopted by men of science.
      But no resume can convey an idea of the close reason
 ing, the suggestivcness, the acute thinking, the perspicuity,

       266            SERIOUS OR IRONICAL ?                        xv
 1877 the profound philosophy, and the humour which pervade
Am. 42 tne book. The leaders of the scientific world, however,
       are seldom hasty in accepting from an outsider any new
       and far-reaching theory ; especially if it be presented
       amid a sparkle of originality and humour. Their more
       usual course is, as Butler says in one of his notes, to wait
       till they are forced to accept it, and then to say that they
       found it out themselves. Besides, it was fairly well known
       that the author of Life and Habit had been brought up
       for the Church ; it was better known that he had written
       Erewhon, professedly "A Work of Satire and Imagina
       tion " ; and what was to be thought about The Fair
       Haven ? Who could tell whether Life and Habit was
       written seriously or ironically ? The problem was not
       really a very difficult one ; but the safest course seemed
       to be to take anything that was wanted from the book,
       fling " fantastic " and " paradoxical " at the author, and
       pass on. Just as his experience with Hoare's companies
       was valuable by showing him something of the ways of
       business men, so the reception of his book was valuable
       as showing him something of the ways of men of science,
       and he made this note :
            One object of Life and Habit was to place the distrust of
       science upon a scientific basis.

                       CHAPTER XVI
                                1878
                 INVESTIGATING EVOLUTION
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
                                         New Bernbrs Club,
                                           64 Berners Street, W.
                                                 Jan. 4th 1878.
     My dear Mr. Butler—You are a very unkind friend to 1878
give me a disappointment for my itrennes. You said in your Aet. 42
last letter that I was not to expect to hear of you and the book
till Monday week. Accordingly, last Monday I expected to
hear, and have been expecting ever since. And I want so much
to hear ; and it was very unkind of you not to tell me sooner
that you were going away, so that I could not get my other
copy ; and, as I had promised to lend it, and have quite a foolish
respect for my word, I was obliged to deprive myself of my own
copy in the very honeymoon. Fortunately for my happiness,
however, I had got it from Mudie's for the club to read, and,
when I thought I was going to be distracted with toothache,
 I stole it and took it home to comfort me in the night. I
committed this crime several times, and it is all your fault that
my high moral "tone" (as Mrs. Kingsley would say) is being
lowered.
     I have had a dreadful cold for the last fortnight ; it was so
 bad that one day 1 thought I should be obliged to stay at home
all day, and it is not much better now.
     I send you the Examiner review "at my leisure," as you told
me—though I am afraid I have kept it long.
     I wish you a happy new year, and I hope you will understand
that I am very much offended with you.—Yours very truly,
                                             E. M. A. Savage.
     P.S.—There are a great many hard words in the book ; but I
don't mind them, for I have a dictionary which I bought two
years ago as I wished to read Daniel Deronda in the original.
                                 267

         268              LITERARY EDUCATION                           xv1
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
  1878       10 7an. 1878—I shall come for my book to-morrow at
Aet. 42 twenty-five minutes past four o'clock, or thereabouts, unless I
        hear from you to the contrary. I am angry with the reviewers,
        very ; but they will have their reward ! When they find the
        book read by the public, they will pretend to just discover it !
        Then they will write notices, and you will be able to dispense
        with being grateful, which will be comfortable for you.
             [All very pretty, my dear Miss Savage, but the public did not
        read the book, and the reviewers, as a whole, were very cold.—
        S. B. Sep. 21, 1901.]
             Send a card here. Post it any time before 1 o'clock, and I
        shall get it, but only in case I am not to come ; and you needn't
        trouble about sending it at all, as I have important business near
        Clare Market, where there is a broker's shop, so I shall be
        obliged to come into your neighbourhood, and it will not put me
        out if I find your door shut.
             P.S.—This was written yesterday, but Providence would not
        allow it to be posted (why I don't know). (God moves in a
        mysterious way his wonders to perform.) My arrangements are
        the same. To-morrow is Saturday now—only I shall not come
        till nearly five o'clock, which I will do punctually. Also, I am
        about to have a severe cold, owing to Providence sending me out
        to dinner last night, and letting the cab-horse fall down in a
        lonely spot in St. John's Wood ; and I had to stand at a windy
        corner, where four roads meet, waiting for another cab, not
        exactly equipped for such an adventure ; so I will come to the
        door if I have a cold—but I cannot pass another Sunday without
        my book. You can hand it to me by Mrs. Corry ; I suppose
        you will not mind if she catches my cold.
              Mrs. Corry (or Corrie) was Butler's laundress.
             Butler was trying to get back to the writing of his
        novel, and Miss Savage, not having been discouraged by
        her failure with Middlemarch, proposed to carry on his
        literary education with Voltaire. Then she wrote, 14th
        Jan. 1878, that perhaps Diderot would serve his turn
        better.
             Nobody reads Diderot's stories, et pour cause ; so authors
        crib from him without any fear of being found out. Not that
        you require to crib from anybody, and indeed I am ashamed of
        you for wanting to do so. However, I send you the vol.

                                 REVIEWS                            269
                          Butler to Miss Savage.
     26 "January 1878—What is the matter? I hope nothing tg7g
 serious ; but I do not reckon you among the complainers, and am Aet. 42
 afraid there is something amiss with you. Nothing ever goes
 right for long together with any friend of mine. Other people
 lose their nearest relations, but neither I nor my friends ever
 do so.
     I am not amiss myself. There is a review of Life and Habit
 in to-day's Saturday Review, very much the same kind of
 review as the Athenaeum review. However, both are calculated
 to make the book read and to strengthen my position. I have
 heard nothing from the Contemporary, and, as you give them a
 bad name, will keep an eye upon them.
     I am to meet young Darwin [i.e. Frank Darwin] on the 5th
 at the rooms of a common friend [Charles Crawley] : I am sure
 he means to try and come round me in some way.
     Let me have a line to say what your misfortunes have been.
     P.S.—Was Diderot's name Jean Paul Courier ? You sent
me a book by Jean Paul Courier, but I can find no story in it.
 I don't believe it is by Diderot at all.
     [I remember the meeting with Frank Darwin. He was
evidently a good deal upset with me, but quite civil. Speaking
of attacks on established reputations he said that George Eliot
had said to him a few days before : " If this sort of thing is to be
allowed, who is safe ? " ; but whether or no this was aimed at
my attack on his father I could not determine. He wanted to
know what the true reading of the song, " Some breeds do and
some breeds don't," was ; and did not look approvingly when I
told him.— 1 90 1 S. B.]
     This is a reference to p. 201 of Life and Habit :
     Every man and every race is capable of education up to a
certain point, but not to the extent of being made from a sow's
ear into a silk purse. The proximate cause of the limitation
seems to lie in the absence of the wish to go further ; the
presence or absence of the wish will depend upon the nature
and surroundings of the individual, which is simply a way of
saying that one can get no further, but that as the song (with a
slight alteration) says :
        Some breeds do, and some breeds don't,
        Some breeds will, but this breed won't ;
        I tried very often to see if it would,
        But it said ic really couldn't, and I don't think it could.

        270                  " SOME GIRLS DO "                         xn
 187*         If we alter "breeds" into "girls" and "it" into
Aet. 42 " she » we sha]l restore the original reading. There was
        another variation of this song made by combining with
        it the refrain of another song—I forget where we picked
        it up—probably we heard it in some pantomime at the
        Grecian Theatre in the City Road. Butler often quoted
        it, but is not likely to have done so in Crawley's rooms ;
        it went thus :
                    Some girls do, and some girls don't,
                    Some girls will, but this girl won't ;
                    I tried very often to see if she would,
                    But she said she was—living with mother now.
             I reproduce the following post-card from Butler,
        because it is the first communication I ever received from
        him. I must have sent him a review of Life and Habit,
        but I have forgotten all about it :
                               Butler to H. F. Jones.
            January 1878—A hundred thanks. The review is distinctly
        and wilfully hostile ; but what could I expect from a writer who
        spells rythagor«n with an "i"? They never allude to Darwin
        or Lamarck. It is, I suspect, by one of the clique—but unless
        one had made up one's mind for this sort of thing one had better
        have not written. I dreamt last night that Handel played me,
        for a whole hour, from two new operas which he had just com
        posed, and which were called Andratina and Passina.—S. B.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
             I Feb. 1878—It was very stupid of me to send you Courier
        (though he is not bad reading) instead of Diderot. However,
        upon reflection, perhaps I had better not send Diderot at all ;
        his tales not being the kind of literature one should place in the
        hands of young persons. As for my misfortunes, dear Mr. Butler,
        I am afraid you will think I have been committing a fraud upon
        your sympathies. I do not think you could at all comprehend
        some of them. For instance, I woke up one morning with a
        rash all over my throat and shoulders ; and, as I was going out
        to dinner that same evening, I had suddenly to make a change
        in my dress, which, besides being ugly, kept me at work all the

xv1            MISS SAVAGE'S ANCESTORS                         271
morning. I don't expect a man to sympathize with me in such 187*
troubles as this. The rash, no doubt, arose from my having Aet. 42
subsisted principally on buns during several weeks. It was
provoking that my old doctor has retired ; else it would quite
have consoled me to be able to go to him with a malady
which he could not declare to be unreal. It could be seen, so
he could not have derided me as was his wont. I am quite
well now.
     Another misfortune was losing some money belonging to the
dub, which I had no immediate means of replacing ; so I was
obliged to have recourse to my nearest relations, which was
unpleasant, and so will be for many a year. It is not my fault,
however, that I am careless about money. My ancestors have
always had so little coin to take care of that I have not inherited
the power of taking care of it myself without much conscious
effort ; and I cannot always keep up to the necessary watchful
ness. I never have lost an umbrella. It is not so very long
ago that my forefathers were running about in the woods,
of course armed with sticks, so it comes quite natural to me
 to take care of my umbrella, which is so like a stick in form
and use. . . .
     I have read the notice in The Saturday Review. It is better
 than The Athenaeum, but still curiously reticent about Lamarck
 and Darwin. Be sure you let me know when there are more
 notices. I am at this present moment quite distraught, and
 should go into a lunatic asylum, only I am afraid Mrs. Lowe
 would so soon get me out again. We are going to have a concert
 for the benefit of the club, so you can imagine the state of mind
 I am in.
      The progress of the Pontifex novel was interrupted
 by the necessity for looking up Ray Lankester's article
 in Nature (13th July 1876); and this disclosed that
 Professor Hering, in his lecture, had set forth a theory
 closely resembling that propounded in Life and Habit—
 so closely that, as Butler said, it sprang nothing on him.
 He wrote to The Athenaeum (9th February 1878) calling
 further attention to the lecture. It was then necessary to
 re-read The Origin of Species, and in the third edition he
 found a " brief but imperfect " sketch of the progress of
 opinion on the subject of the origin of species prior to
 the publication of the first edition. This led him on to
 read each of the writers mentioned in the sketch ; and
 he was astonished at the completeness of the theory of

       272       AN UNINTELLIGENT UNIVERSE                               ™
 1878 evolution contained in the works of Buffbn (between
Aet.42 1749 and 1788); in the Zoonomia of Dr. Erasmus
       Darwin (1794) ; and in the writings of Lamarck (between
        1 801 and 1 831). He was more astonished when he
       remembered that The Origin of Species had left him under
       the impression that evolution and natural selection were
       practically the same thing. It now appeared that Mr.
       Darwin was not the first to announce a theory of descent
       with modification. Moreover, by treating as accidental
       the variations whose accumulation results in species, Mr.
       Darwin was doing his best to drive intelligence out of
       the universe ; whereas the earlier evolutionists had
       recognised the presence of design and intelligence, though
       they had made the mistake, as Butler thought, of placing
       these qualities not in the creature itself but in an external
       deity. Why did Mr. Darwin want the universe to be
       mindless ? Why had he told us so little about the earlier
       evolutionists ? Why had he put nearly all he did tell us
       about his predecessors into a " brief but imperfect " sketch,
       which did not make its appearance until the third edition
       of his book, after 6000 copies had been sold? Butler
       felt he had been taken in. It was John Pickard Owen
       and the chickens over again ; it was the alleged death
       and resurrection of Jesus Christ over again ; it was his
       own education over again ; and there was nothing for it
       but to investigate the whole subject and write a book
       about it. This book was Evolution Old and New,
       published in 1879.
                            Miss Savage to Butler.
            7 March 1878—You must not use such bad language when
       you write to me. [She must have destroyed this letter, for I did
       not find it among those returned to me.—S. B.] What will
       posterity, for whom I carefully preserve your letters, think of
       a person who takes such liberties ? Not but what Professor
       Clifford quite deserves that or any other epithet of a like intensity
       that you choose to bestow upon him.                           .
            I should very much like to know what you said to your
       sister about pessimism ? I do not know what pessimism is ; and,
       indeed, I don't believe there is such a thing, for it is not in my

xv.       CANON BUTLER AND EREWHON                             273
dictionary, which is quite a new one; but I should like to know 1878
what you said.                                                      Aet. 42
                     Butler to Miss Savage.
     13 March 1878—I only told my sister that pessimism was
all right, and, when she seemed sceptical, I said that it was not
in any way improper. I agree with you in not knowing what
it is ; and, I have no doubt, also in not wanting to know
more about it, if, as I suppose, it only means exaggerating the
evil that is in the world, which is quite bad enough without
exaggeration.
     I sent the Standard notice to my father, and the one from
 Truth, with a civil note, exceedingly carefully worded, so as to
be in every way nice and proper—which I assure you took me
a great deal of trouble. I send enclosed reply, which gives me
the pleasure of feeling that I had done him no injustice in
anticipating something very like what I got. For goodness' sake
don't lose it, but return it at once, as it is a continual pleasure
to me. . . .
     I went to La Belle Hilene last night and enjoyed it extremely.
Independently of much else, it always soothes me to hear these
old Greek heroes made fun of.
     [And to think that in my old age I should have become so
infocolato with the Iliad and Odyssey as to do what I have done
for them ! Still, I should like to see La Belle Hilene again.—
Oct. 1901. S. B.]
      It appears from Canon Butler's letter that he had
made a point of not reading any of his son's books except
A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement. He repeated this
on other occasions as though it were a thing to be proud
of. He seems to have felt that success in this kind of
literature was even more to be deprecated than success in
any kind of painting. And yet, how can he have known
what the books were like ? And how can his repeated
declaration that he had not read any of them be reconciled
with the idea that Erewhon had caused the death of Mrs.
Butler ? We can hardly suppose that Canon Butler forced
her to read it as an experiment, and, observing the conse
quences to be fatal, prudently determined to abstain from
reading it himself, and to avoid every subsequent emana
tion from so poisonous a source. The probability is that
neither of them knew more of Erewhon than they gathered
     vol. 1                                                 T

        274                  MR. CHAMBERLAIN                             xv,
  1878 from reviews and the reports of good-natured friends ;
Aet. 42 tj^s would be enough to convince them that it was a book,
        unfit to be seen upon the drawing-room table of any
        " happy, united, God-fearing family " ; and all its suc
        cessors would naturally follow it on to the Langar index.
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
             15 March 1878—The letter [from Canon Butler] is perfect,
        and you are quite right to take the greatest care of it.
            I am acting as secretary to this Society [The Society of Lady
        Artists]—paid assistant secretary I mean. The real secretary is
        hon. If I behave well I may be engaged for the season, which
        will be a stroke of good luck. The former secretary, a. man,
        obligingly died of bronchitis a fortnight ago. Providence, you
        see, is good sometimes even to me.
            Come and see me here ; one of my duties is to make myself
        agreeable, so it will be my duty to make myself agreeable to you.
        I shall say that you are a millionaire, and entreat you to buy Miss
        Collingridge's picture. That is the best way I know of making
        myself agreeable. I shall come and see you in a fortnight, or rather
        your picture.
                               Butler to Miss Butler.
            27 March 1878—I send in four things to the Academy—two
        portraits, an oil landscape, and a water-colour landscape—but I am
        not very sanguine ; indeed, I am distinctly depressed about my
        work at present, and wonder whether I ever shall paint ; on the
        other hand, I have had these depressions very often, and know
        that they come more from being able to see what I could not see
        before than from anything else. . . .
            I dined out the other day and took in a very pretty young lady
        to dinner, and sat opposite a very nice, quiet, gentlemanly man
        to whom I vented now and again Conservative opinions which
        I imagined were well received. When the others were gone, I
        asked my hostess who it was that I had taken in to dinner, and
        was told it was Miss Cobden (Cobden's daughter). I then asked
        who had sat opposite me. "Mr. Chamberlain, MP. for Birming
        ham," was the reply. Really people should not introduce one in
        a perfectly inaudible voice.
            I am sorry you should think my sending those reviews to my
        father was "forcing differences upon him.         That was not my
        intention, but rather to show him that disinterested third parties
        considered me as in more substantial agreement [with him] than

   xv,                      LADY BEALE                           275
   he was perhaps aware of. And this I believe to be true; indeed 1878
   I am more and more sure of it every year. However, I sincerely Aet. 42
   hope this bitter weather is doing no harm either to him or you.
        This dinner was at the house of Mr. William Phipson
   Beale, who afterwards became Sir W. P. Beale, Bart.
   Butler made his acquaintance on one of his voyages to
   Canada (see ante, p. 212). I was talking to Lady Beale
   recently, and asked her if she remembered the dinner
   party. She remembered all about it, and made no secret
  of having enjoyed the incident. She added that when she
   told Butler the names of the " pretty young lady " and
   the " very nice, quiet, gentlemanly man," he turned upon
   her and exclaimed : " O you wicked woman ! I'll never
  dine with you again."
                          Miss Savage to Butler.
       5 May 1878—By this time, I suppose, you have returned from
  your country trip well and strong, I hope, and having enjoyed
  the change. I have not been well. Just before Easter I had an
  attack of influenza—a sickness which, as you know, includes many
  disorders, and some of them have not yet quite left me ; however,
  I shall be all right in a day or two. My exhibition is nearly over,
  for which I am sorry, as I find it very amusing ; and, besides, the
  occupation suits me by giving my natural propensity for lying
  legitimate exercise. I greatly enjoy telling people who have just
  purchased a hideous fright of a picture that it is the "gem of the
  exhibition," and seeing them go away with a smirk of delight on
  their countenances.
       The people who buy the better pictures go away rather sadly
  and depressed. They are people with more knowledge, and there
  fore they are inclined to doubt, and their doubts torment them.
  It is my duty to console and sustain these persons, and I hope I
  do my duty. At the same time, I like to feel that it is in my
  power to make them much more miserable than they actually are.
       I am longing to know how you are getting on with the
  Pontifexes. It wanted curtailing, no doubt ; but 1 hope you will
  not be too eager to cut it down. And don't hurry with it. How
  I wish you had never gone to Canada ! The novel was progress-
: ing so well then, and you would have written two or three others
  by this time. And now you take up your novel again, and say it
  isn't good—which is treating it unfairly. I am sure it is good.
  Your judgment has changed ; possibly it has not improved. Have

        276                  OLIVIA PRIMROSE                              xv1
  1878 you done anything to that other novel you talked about, or does
Aet. 42 the idea remain an idea only ?
             I want to know these particulars, and that is why I am writing
        to you ; so answer my letter soon, please, and do not forget to tell
        me how you are.
             P.S.—I see from the R.A. Catalogue yesterday that your
        pictures are not hung. This is vexatious, but a very small mis
        fortune, and one you share with hundreds. It is, in fact, so small
        that it can hardly even give much pleasure to your friends.
              " That other novel " did remain " an idea only." It
        was a proposal for " a novelette supposed to be written by
        Olivia Primrose, partly giving her version of the events
        recorded by Goldsmith, and partly her ulterior history."
              Butler had been complaining of sleeping badly, and
        Miss Savage wrote :
             1i May 1878—Don't be rude to Royal Academicians; that
        exercise will not promote your slumbers. [I suspect I must have
        flown at Henry Stacy Marks for using contemptuous language
        about Lord Beaconsfield ; but Marks and I remained very good
        friends till he died.— 1901. S. B.]
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
             18 May 1878—The Pontifexes grow apace. I want to cover
        the whole ground and will then rewrite carefully. I am now just
        beginning vol. ii.
             My " Psalm of Montreal " is in to.day's Spectator, and reads
        well enough ; but I think it is the most disreputable thing I ever
        saw in a respectable paper. I wonder at The Spectator putting it
        in. I am better, and not feeling overworked, though I am at
        full swing.
             The week after next I go home, which I shall enjoy in a
        curious sort of a way, and shall finish the fortnight painting out of
        doors near Shrewsbury. I shall not touch the novel that fort
        night, but shall go in for it again on my return.
             Butler was told later that The Spectator had got into
        hot water with some of its readers for having published
        his "Psalm of Montreal." I wrote to Mr. Edward
        Clodd, who, I knew, had had something to do with this
        appearance of the poem, asking him to tell me what he
        remembered of it. He knew nothing of the hot water,

xv1                  EDWARD CLODD                              277
and it is possible it was not so hot as Butler's sensitiveness 1878
led him to believe.                                                 Aet. 42
                    Mr. Clodd to H. F. Jones.
    29 Oct. 1915—The "Psalm" was recited to me at the
Century Club by Butler. He gave me a copy of it which I read
to the late Charles Anderson, Vicar of St. John's, Lewisham, who
lent it to Matthew Arnold (when inspecting Anderson's schools),
who lent it to Richard Holt Hutton, who (with Butler's consent)
printed it in The Spectator of 18 May 1878.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
    [End of May 1878]—I am better; my new cold is nearly
gone ; the old one, caught last January, is beginning to show
through like old, dirty snow when the new has been melted from
the top of it ; but I am really in all respects much better, and
my breathing is nearly well.
    I cannot part with any Darwin MS. [Evolution Old and
New"] ; it is going ahead fast, and will be done by the middle or
end of January. It gets more and more telling, and I shall get it
quieter also. A friend accused me the other day of liking a row.
I am afraid he is right ; but I only like it when I am quite sure
that I have the right end of the stick.
    I am going down to Shrewsbury this week and shall find out
how my aunt is ; my sister has not mentioned her for nearly three
months. I asked point blank how she was a fortnight ago, but
my sister answered my letter without telling me. I was pleased
to find that she used the word " bright "four times in this letter,
and "pleasant" twice, one "hopefully," and one "happy little
time," from all which I was assured that she was in a towering
passion. She had written two letters without a single " bright,"
and I was getting quite uneasy about her.
    I have been a long walk in the country and am rather tired,
so I will add no more.
                     Miss Savage to Butler.
    27 June 1878—I enjoyed the three chapters immensely
[MS. of The Way of All Flesh] ; I like Theobald and Christina
—Christina especially. She is particularly delightful when she
allows her imagination to soar, as, for example, in the theatre
scene. But, if you cut out anything, the paragraph that succeeds
her famous flight of fancy might go ; it rather weakens the effect.

         278                     PAWNBROKERS
  1878   I want the preceding chapters dreadfully.      Do be kind and let
Aet.42 me nave them.
             P.S.—Pawnbrokers are bound by law to put objects pawned
       I into an iron box, so Christian's watch would not be hanging in
         the window, unless it had been sold outright at first.
             Your MS. will come by an early post to-morrow. I had an
         accident, and smudged the address on the only strong envelope I
         possessed ; then I put it into a flimsy one, but, at the P.O., I was
         seized with fright at sending it so insecurely. Now it is stamp-
         bound. But you will have it to-morrow.
              At first the name of the hero in The Way of All Flesh
         was Christian, but, on reconsideration, it seemed better to
         alter it, especially as his mother was Christina. George
         Pontifex, as a publisher, might be supposed to know what
         influences were at work in the literary world, and that the
         word "earnest" was coming into fashion, so he decided
         that his godson should be christened Ernest (chap- xviii.).
         At first, also, Ellen pawned the watch, and Theobald saw
         it hanging in the window for sale, and bought it ; but
         after Miss Savage pointed out the illegality of the pro
         ceeding, Ellen had to leave it with the shopman for sale
         (chap. xli.).
              Butler now prepared to start for his summer holiday.
                                Butler to Miss Savage.
              2 "July 1878—You see I wrote the greater part of Life and
          Habit since my last holiday, and put it through the press, and
          have written two volumes of the Pontifex novel (some of it old,
          but it was all rewritten) besides painting, and have been worried
          incessantly about money and with my people, and I don't think I
          need grumble at wanting a spell now. At any rate, whether I
          ought or ought not, I shall go, and chance it.
                                  Butler to his Father.
              Fa1do, 14 Aug. 1878—I send dried specimens of Alterni-
          folium—as many, I imagine, as you are likely to want ; but have
          found a place now where it is abundant in every size from half an
          inch to about 4 or 5 inches. I bring you back living examples
          of different sizes and growths.
              I put a little Septentrionale in along with the Alternifolium,

xv1                         WOODSIAS                                 279
but gather that you want a live plant or two, which shall be 1878
brought. I have half-a-dozen plants of the Woodsia Ilvensis Aet. 42
which I will bring. They are quite well and healthy ; but if
you want dried specimens, please let me know at once.
      I suppose from this letter that while at Shrewsbury
Butler had had some conversation with his father about
these ferns and promised to send him some from the
Ticino. The Woodsias, however, were not properly
treated at Shrewsbury, and Butler made this note about
them in 1882.
                     My Father's Woods1as
     When I was a boy we used to get Woodsia on Snowdon and
Glyder Fawr. There were four plants left on Glyder still when
I was young, and William Williams x swore that there were none
others. My father would get a plant, take it home, and put it in
the greenhouse. Of course it died ; but his other ferns were kept
in the greenhouse, so this must be kept there too. I had a plant
which I found in a hitherto unsuspected place where there were
many plants. I brought its own stones and its own earth,
enough to fill a pot ; knowing that the Woodsia likes growing
where water can flow on it in heavy wet weather from some
swollen rill, I made a little syphon, and occasionally let the
water run on to it for two or three hours as from a miniature
waterfall. My Woodsia lived for years. I remonstrated with
my father about keeping this high mountain fern all the summer
in the greenhouse ; but it was no use. Years afterwards, I
brought him some very fine Woodsias from Canton Ticino ; and
I brought their own stones and earth, and planted them where
they would occasionally be dripped on by water from a gutter ;
but it was no use. Next time I went to Shrewsbury there they
were in the hot bed with the other ferns. This is my father ail
over.
      Since my first visit to Butler I had sometimes called
on him on my way home from the city. After being
admitted a solicitor in November 1876, I remained in
the office of Messrs. Paine, where I had been articled,
till early in 1878, when I went to be managing clerk in
an office at Westminster. Butler's rooms did not lie
in my way as I went home from Westminster, but I
    1 He m a servant of the family and spoken of as "William Williams, the
Butlers' butler."

       280                PORTRAIT OF HIMSELF                                        xv.
1878 continued to call on him sometimes on Saturday after-
 l" *z noons. He was generally painting, and I used to sit and
       look on. In the early part of 1878 he was painting a
       portrait of himself, which he afterwards gave me, and
       which our friend Mr. Emery Walker has reproduced as
       the frontispiece to vol. I. of this Memoir. The picture
       now (191 6) hangs in the hall of St. John's College,
       Cambridge.
            Once I showed him three or four songs I had tried to
       set to music, and he did not like them. I afterwards
       wrote one that was just passable because it had what he
       called a Handelian bass. I had also been trying to write
       poetry, but he did not like poetry.
             " Shakespeare wrote poetry," I pointed out.
             " Yes," he admitted, " but Shakespeare's poetry is as
       good as prose."
             I felt the implication that this could not be said of
        mine, and was silent.
             Sometimes I would call on him in the evening, and he
       would read me anything he was writing ; or we would
       talk about books, music, or painting, or go to a theatre.
       At that time he belonged to the Century Club, where he
       took me two or three times ; but he soon resigned his
       membership.
                           The Nat1onal L1beral Club
            There is a letter in this morning's Times (6 Nov. 1884) about
       the foundation of this Club in which the names of the committee
       from whom the whole thing emanated are given.1 I claim the
       honour, if honour it be, of having been one of the committee at
       the Century Club when the project was first mooted by Arthur
       Williams, who certainly was the originator of the whole thing ;
        Hope Moncrieff was another. I think Evans Williams, Dillwyn,
       Arthur Williams, Clodd, Hope Moncrieff and myself were all
       who were present at the two or three meetings which preceded the
       appointment of the committee named in The Times of this
       morning. Then I, seeing that the Century was becoming more
       and more a political club (which it was distinctly not when I
       joined it, as an avowed Conservative, in 1872 or 3), and was
          1 The namu are these : W. L. Bright, H. Dillwyn, J. J. Tylor, .Evans Williams,
       Arthur Williams, and Walter Wren.

xv!              A MEETING IN ITALY                      281
likely, as I thought, to merge into this new National Liberal 1878
Club, withdrew my name and left the Club.                    A.et. 42
      Something had been said during the summer about our
meeting in the Canton Ticino if it should be convenient ;
but nothing definite was settled, and in the middle of
August I went for my holiday to the Black Forest. I
soon began to feel solitary, walking alone with a knap
sack ; and, after some hesitation, sent Buder a telegram
asking whether I might join him, and, if so, where, and
 giving him my address at Zurich, where I had friends.
 He replied from Faido that he was just off to the Sacro
 Monte, above Varese, and that I should find him at the
 Albergo Riposo. I was a little uneasy at what I had
 done, for I was not at all sure he would put up with me ;
 and he felt the same as soon as he had sent his reply.
 He was sixteen years my senior, and we had seen very
 little of one another ; still, I liked being with him, and
 reflected that, if anything went wrong, we ought to be
 able to separate without much harm being done.
      I had been once to Italy for a few days nine years
before, but I was alone then and knew no Italian. This
time I was to be with one as familiar with the country
and the language as I was with Oxford Street and English.
 I went from Zurich to Lucerne, then by boat to Fluelen,
and up the S. Gottardo by diligence. I got out at
Gflschenen, and walked to Andermatt in the moonlight,
through the gorge, in which I stayed about thirty seconds
to admire the Devil's Bridge. " I daresay Mendelssohn
would have stayed at least two hours at the Devil's
Bridge, but then he did stay such a long while before
things " {Alps and Sanctuaries, chapter ii.). Next morning
the diligence started at 5 and took me over the pass to
Biasca ; on the way I particularly noticed Faido, and all
the little villages on the sides of the mountains of which
I had heard Butler speak. At Biasca I took train to
Locarno, and I went on by steamer to Luino, where I
arrived rather late ; but there was a return carriage in
which I drove across country through the gathering
darkness, and the coachman talked to me about the new
King Umberto, who had come to the throne on the death

        282                        VARESE                          xv1
  1878 of his father the preceding January. Presently we reached
Aet. 42 the Prima Cappella on the Sacro Monte, above Varese ;
        and there was Butler waiting for me at the door of the
        Albergo Riposo. I was too late for the hotel dinner, so
        I had supper, and he sat and talked to' me.
             " I should eat all the peaches if I were you," said he.
             When I had done so (and they were very good), we
        sat out on the terrace, smoking in the moonlight, and
        watching the lamps down in Varese, and the lightning
        that played incessantly over the plain below. Nothing
        had gone wrong as yet. Presently I pointed out a
        particular star and asked if he knew its name. Now
        Butler, though I was unaware of it at the time, con
        sidered that he resembled the Emperor Marcus Aurelius
        Antoninus in that he was thankful to say he had never
        troubled himself about the appearance of things in the
        heavens. He therefore replied with some asperity :
             " I do not know anything about astronomy."
             Nor did I, for the matter of that. I felt rebuked,
        and was silent. After a pause, he said, in a conciliatory
        tone, as though he had, perhaps, gone too far :
             " I know the moon."
             And there the matter dropped.
             The next morning he took me up the Sacro Monte,
        and showed me the Chapels of the Mysteries of Joy, of
        Sorrow, and of Glory, and the town on the top ; and 1
        soon perceived that he enjoyed showing me these things
        as much as I enjoyed seeing them.
             Next day we drove to Angera, and, on the way, passed
        a new mausoleum, bristling with architectural features,
        which seemed to me a thing to be noticed ; but Butler
        would have nothing to do with it. He said it was all
        Tj/wo.t? and no ar/dirt). I said that an artist must master
        his technique before he could express what he wished to
        say. But it seemed that by devoting his energies to gain
        ing this power he would lose the desire to say anything ;
        and then would come the temptation, which generally
        proved too strong, to glory in merely displaying the
        ability he had acquired. I must wait till he could show
        me the porch of Rossura church in the Leventina valley.

xv1                           ARONA                       283
He was very kind about it, but it was all new and strange 1878
to me ; nevertheless, I felt that he understood what he et. 42
was talking about, and, though puzzled, was intensely
interested.
    We went all through the Castle of Angera, where
S. Carlo Borromeo was born, and when we saw the
crowned " Humilitas," the badge of the family, Butler
quoted :
              And the Devil did grin, for his darling sin
                Is pride that apes humility.
    I was introduced to the custode of the Castle and to
his family, who welcomed Butler as an old friend. He
had made their acquaintance in 1871, when the old boat
man, Giovannino, used to row him over the lake from
Arona, and he would spend all day sketching in the castle.
    Then we went down to the inn and had lunch in the
garden ; and there were tame sparrows who hopped about
us and ate the crumbs. And there was a poodle " who,"
the waiter told us, " although he was a truly hunting dog,
was too well-bred to molest the sparrows." Then we
found Giovannino's son, Tonio, now old enough to be
trusted with a boat of his own ; and he rowed us over
the lake to Arona.
     In 1 87 1 the hotel at Arona had been so attractive
to Butler that he stayed there till he had made a great
number of sketches of the Borromean castle. The hotel
was kept by a family, and one of the daughters, Isabella,
was a magnificently beautiful woman of whom he had
often spoken to me, and after whom Tonio had named
his boat. " Her lips were full and restful, with something
of an Egyptian Sphinx-like character about them." This
is from the description of Ellen in The Way of all Flesh
(chapter xxxviii.), and I have no doubt that in writing
it he was thinking of Isabella, who looked as though she
could never move quickly except to do a kindness. But
Ellen's moral character was not taken from Isabella ; it
was necessary for the plot and had to be obtained from
other sources. Butler made this note about—

        284                          FUSIO                             xv1
                                     Isabella
  1878       I have never seen any woman comparable to her, and kept
Aet. 43 out of her way on purpose after leaving Arona [in 1871] as the
        only thing to be done, for we had become thick. I kept away
        from Arona for years ; but at last returned with Jones, for I
        wanted. to show her to him and to see her again, which I might
        now safely do. She was at the hotel door, leaning against the side
        of the house, as we came up from the quay, looking much older,
        and, as usual, very sad, when her face was in repose. It made me
        feel unhappy ; but I went on, and she woke up from her dream
        ing when she saw strangers approaching.
             She recognised him, and he began his apologies as soon
        as we were near enough for her to hear :
             " I do not know what to say to you ; I have been
        behaving very badly ; I ought to have been to see you
        before ; every year I have intended to come, and
        this      "
             " And this year," she interrupted, *' you have come,
        and I am very glad to see you."
             She smiled as she held out her hand and came down
        the steps to meet him, like Elizabeth greeting Mary in
        the Salutation Chapel on the Sacro Monte. Of course I
        fell in love with Isabella on the spot.
              We went next day by steamer to Locarno ; and then
        in the post to Bignasco, and so to Fusio, where he wanted
        to introduce me to Signor Dazio, who kept the inn there,
        and was a Member of Parliament ; and to show me the
        lovely peacefulness of the Valle di Sambucco.
              From Fusio we walked over the mountains to Faido,
        the town in the Ticino Valley which had been his principal
        headquarters for so many years. He took me up to the
        little villages on both sides of the valley and showed me
        his favourite sketching places, and especially the porch of
        Rossura church {Alps and Sanctuaries, chapter iv.). The
        church is built on a slope ; and the porch, whose entrance
        is at a lower level than that of the floor of the church,
        contains a flight of steps leading up to the church door.
        The porch is there to shelter the steps, on and around
        which the people congregate and gossip before and after

xv1                 ROSSURA PORCH                        285
service, especially in bad weather. They also sometimes 1878
overflow picturesquely, and kneel praying on the steps et. 42
while service is going on inside.
     It rather disappointed me ; it was so very plain and
could not well have been otherwise, as it seemed to me.
Even admitting that it was pleasing, the architect deserved
no credit for what could have cost him no labour or
thought. Whereas, in the case of the mausoleum
     He said I was like Mr. Darwin, who could see no
design in the organic kingdom, and thought it all rested
on accident. There could be no doubt that the architect
had made the porch, and made it as he wanted it to be ;
accident was present, if you like, but it was accident of
which the architect had designedly taken advantage ;
moreover, he had avoided all the crimes and flaunting
affectation of the swaggering architect of the mausoleum.
We are all responsible for our actions, and must be
praised or blamed according to the results we produce.
The impression that the porch could not be otherwise,
that feeling of inevitableness, was just one of its charms.
It was like Handel's music—a diatonic melody harmon
ised with common chords over a walking bass. There
were no cross rhythms in the porch of Rossura church ;
no shifty diminished sevenths, saying one thing and mean
ing another ; no passionate augmented sixths, tearing their
hair ; no extravagant modulations to remote keys. Unlike
the mausoleum, it was all tya.tri) and only as much yvtoant
as was necessary ; it was a background for Giovanni
Bellini, not for Michael Angelo; Most of this was a
quiverful of arrows aimed at a morbid tendency he
thought he had detected in me to forsake the music that he
loved best and to go a-hankering after the songs of Schubert
and Brahms. Long before we returned to Faido I was
a conf1rmed Lamarckian, seeing design in the porch and
in everything else.
    Then I remembered that I had had drawing lessons
at school, and began to wonder whether I had acquired
enough yv&<ri<; to support any ayd.rrt} I might possess. So
he gave me some paper and a pencil and set me to draw
a chalet. There was not time to carry the experiment

         286                      SINCERITY                          xv,
  1878 far, because I had to return to my Zurich friends and get
Aet. 42 back to the office. We were together only a week ; but
        we had seen enough of one another to be sure that nothing
        need ever go wrong between us.
             What impressed me most about him was, first, his
        kindness, courtesy, and consideration, not only towards
        me, but towards every one we had anything to do with
        —the other guests in the hotels, the landlords and their
        families, the waiters, drivers, boatmen, porters, and peasants.
        Next I was struck by his uncompromising sincerity. If a
        subject interested him, he took infinite pains to find out
        all he could about it first hand ; thought it over ; and
        formed an opinion of his own, without reference to what
        any one else thought or said. And he treated me as
        though, of course, I acted in the same way, which some
        times put me into a difficulty. If Butler resembled
        Marcus Aurelius, I was like Candide, " qui avait 6t6 elev£
        a ne jamais juger de rien par lui-mdme." We talked
        about Charlotte Bronte ; Butler did not like her ; I said,
        as though taking the odd trick with the ace of trumps,
            "Well, at all events, she wrote three splendid
        novels."
            He replied in a low voice, reluctantly but decidedly :
            " They are not splendid."
            These four words shifted the subject under discussion
        from the splendour or otherwise of Charlotte Bronte's
        novels to the sincerity or otherwise of my opinion. In
       spite of his love of diatonic harmonies he had destroyed
       the tonality of our conversation by a sudden enharmonic
        modulation into a remote key. And I had the conviction
       of sin upon me ; for I felt certain he had taken pains to
       form his opinion, whereas I had been jauntily offering him
       as my own something I had picked up from a magazine
       article by Swinburne, which I had lately read.
            On the other hand, if a subject did not interest him—
       for instance, astronomy—he wasted no time over it, and
       retailed no opinion, but said he knew nothing about it.
            Next, I was struck by his gaiety ; he was perhaps at
       his gayest when travelling.
            " A man's holiday," he would say, " is his garden " ;

xv1           RALEIGH AND COLUMBUS                             287
and he set out to enjoy himself, and to make all about 187*
him enjoy themselves too.                                          "* 42
     Once at Faido I told him the old schoolboy muddle
about Sir Walter Raleigh introducing tobacco, and saying,
" We shall this day light up such a fire in England as I
trust shall never be put out." Next morning, as he was
pouring out his coffee, his eyes twinkled, and he said,
with apparent carelessness :
      " By the by, do you remember ?—wasn't it Columbus
who bashed the egg down on the table and said, ' Eppur
non si muove ' ? "
                     Miss Savage to Butler.
     1 Sept. 1878—It was unkind of you not to have written to
me again, when you know that I wanted to hear from you,
being anxious about your health. You do not always stand
upon the ceremony of receiving answers ; in fact, you never
have done so ; [Yes, but I had, and been scolded for it too. But
not more than I deserved.—S. B., Oct. 12, 1901] so why this
innovation on the part of a good Conservative ?
     If I had known that you would be so formal, however, I
would have written long ago ; and now I write only a few lines
to ask you to let me hear of you as soon as you can. . . .
     I had not a mouchoir worthy of Lord Beaconsfield —one
sufficiently embroidered and belaced—or I would have gone to
wave it at him when he came back from Berlin. When you
come home you must lend me some of his novels ; I have read
nearly all of them, but so long ago that I quite forget them—
Coningsby and Sybil and Vivian Grey, that is to say. The others
I have read more recently. On Bank Holiday I was delighted to
see nine policemen in Mr. Gladstone's division of Harley Street ;
generally there is not one in half a square mile of that neighbour
hood. It showed that he was expecting popular demonstrations,
or frightened. I have no news ; but I want to hear how you
are, and how the Pontifexes are, but more especially how you are.
So I will say good-bye now.
      Butler was back in London by the end .of September
and at work again on Evolution Old and New. But he
first finished three of his sketches and sent them to the
Dudley Gallery in November ; I have not been able to
ascertain whether they were hung because the British
Museum does not contain a set of Dudley Gallery

         288             THE ITALIAN PAINTERS                             xv1
 1878 Catalogues. Also he was interrupted by Spartaco Vela,
Aet. 42 whom he had met at Fusio in 1878, and who came to
         London with three artist friends—Gignous (who had also
         been at Fusio in 1876), Hohenstein, and Angelo Morbelli.
         I never saw Gignous, but I remember the other three.
         Morbelli is a well-known artist, a follower of Segantini,
         and I see him whenever I go to Milan, where he lives
         with his wife and family. Hohenstein used to design
         posters and to work for the theatres. I remember seeing
        in his studio in Milan his drawings for the scenery for
        Verdi's Falstajf, when that work was being mounted at
        the Scala. Spartaco Vela died young. These three occur
        in Alps and Sanctuaries (chapter xxii.), " A Day at the
        Cantine."
                               Butler to Miss Savage.
             26 September 1878—I have had some Italian painters to
        show over London, to whom I have had to attend all day and
        every day, as they could not speak a word of English. They
        are gone, and I am not sorry, though they were very good
        people. I am better but I am still pumping for breath more
        than I like.
            [Writing Life and Habit literally took my breath away. I
        kept wanting to take a long breath, and was quite unable to do
        so. Every now and then great mental or nervous exertion has
        the same effect on me still, but it is very rare and transitory ;
        whereas as soon as I had got well into Life and Habit, what an
       old Italian woman once described to me as a "gran mancamento
        di spirito " was almost continuous, and very both distressing and
       alarming. It was a full year after Life and Habit was published
       before I righted myself.—Sep. 16, 1901.]
            Let me know when and where we can meet—not Saturday or
        Sunday.
            My sister amuses me with a tag which she repeats in every
       letter, " Aunt Lloyd is wonderful." Never more and never less.
       She knows that when my aunt dies, my father comes into posses
       sion of the Whitehall reversion which is ultimately to be mine,
        under my grandfather's will ; and she knows I cannot help
        casting a wistful eye on my aunt, for I think my father, who is
       very well off, may perhaps do something for me when he comes
        into it. If my sister would not mention my aunt, I should not
        care ; but she ostentatiously flings her " Aunt Lloyd is wonderful"
        at me, letter after letter, knowing perfectly well that I shall note

 xv1                   SUNDAY WALKS                              289
 the iteration and read it, as I do : i.e. "If you think I am going 1878
 to tell you anything about Aunt Lloyd you are very much Aet. 42
 mistaken, so put that in your pipe and smoke it."
     In four letters running she has added the word " pleasant " to
 " bright " about things or people ; so, as she has added "pleasant,"
 I hope to see her vocabulary still further enriched if we live long
 enough. She is at present studying Smiles's Lift of George Moore,
 the philanthropist, and considers him "the perfection of an
 energetic and unselfish character." He was unselfish to the
 tune of ^400,000 before he died. May I tell her so ?
     A prig who does not know me, told a friend of mine [H. F.
Jones] the other day, that he did not think it at all a good thing
 for him that he should see so much of me ; he would get nothing
 but harm from me. I told my friend to tell him that I thought
 he might see as much of him as he liked, as I was quite sure he
 would get no harm from him whatever.
      This friend of mine was afraid lest Butler should
undermine my " spiritual and moral nature." Perhaps
 he did. It is curious to be reminded now that such a
suggestion was then considered worth laughing at.
     In her reply Miss Savage wrote, " I think ' bright '
the most odious word in the English language. I took
a hatred to it when I was in contact with Miss Hubbard's
philanthropic set."
     Soon after the publication of Erewhon, Butler went
one Sunday in May to Haslemere and, after a walk in
the country, returned the same day. This was the
beginning of a habit he kept up till nearly the end of his
life. He used to take something to eat in a sandwich
box and get his beer ^n a public-house. He had an
ordnance map of the country thirty miles round London,
one inch to the mile, on which he marked his walks with
red ink ; and there is hardly a road within that limit with
which he was not familiar. His cousin Reginald Worsley
generally accompanied him, and, when the Italian painters
had gone, I joined in the walks and started an ordnance
map of my own. Other friends occasionally came, such
as my brother Edward, Gogin, and J. B. Clark.
     Sometimes we wanted our lunch before the law
permitted us to be served with beer ; if we were near
a public-house we waited till it was open, or, if there
     vol. 1                                                  u

        290                     SUNFLOWERS                            xv1
  1878 was no public-house, we walked on hoping to find what
Aet. *2 we wanted. One is not at one's best when waiting for
        lunch. On some such occasion Butler called our attention
        to a nonconformist chapel built of corrugated iron, with
        pointed window frames and sloping eaves of stained wood ;
        Worsley who, as an architect, admired Renaissance,
        startled us by exclaiming in a tone of irritation, " I do
        hate Gothic."
             On another of these occasions we were at Sompting,
        and Butler tried to cheer us up by calling our attention
        to the church :
             " Now, here is an example of a fine old Saxon place
        of worship."
             " What I want," said Worsley, " is a fine old Saxon
        public-house."
                                 At Bletch1ngly
            One Sunday, when we were getting our lunch, we fell to
        discussing a song, formerly very popular, " Oh no, we never
        mention her, Her name is never heard," and, as usual, blew upon
        it. My cousin said he did not know it, and, speaking of it later
        on in the day, called it, " We pass her by, we don't speak to her
        now," which made us all laugh a good deal. Gogin said my
        cousin could be trusted to suck all the sentiment out of anything
        as a piece of blotting-paper sucks the oil out of paint. "One
        step further," he continued, "and the words would have become,
        ' We used to speak to her, but we never do so now ; she has lost
        her nose.' "
             Another time, it was autumn, and as we passed along
         somewhere near Westerham in Kent, there were sun
         flowers in the cottage gardens, some of them with blossoms
         of enormous size. I had never seen any so large, and
         remarked upon them.
             " Yes," said Butler, " they are immoral."
             Whereupon Worsley and I began to imagine a hell
         in which the sunflowers, in an eternity of torment, should
         expiate the wickedness of their lives ; but Butler said
         they had done nothing to deserve such treatment.
             " Moral is from the Latin word mos, which means
         custom. The sunflowers are only immoral because thev

xv!                         GAZELLES                            291
shock our sense of what is customary ; and, as Hamlet 1878
says, there is nothing either good or bad but thinking Aet. 43
makes it so."
      Many miles on our ordnance maps were qualified for
being marked in red before we had done talking about
what followed from this view of the immorality of the
sunflowers.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     15 Da. 1878 —Yours was forwarded to me down at Shrews
bury [I have not found this letter.—S. B. Oct. 14, 1901] with
the enclosure—which made me sick [I forget all about this.—
S. B.] I am sure that any tree or flower nursed by Miss Cobbe
would be the very first to fade away, and that her gazelles would
die long before they ever came to know her well. The sight of
the brass buttons on her pea-jacket would settle them out of
hand.
     My father was horribly rude at first ; his manner was : " If
you choose to insist on coming down here, I don't see how I can
 well stop you, but you must not expect me to behave as if I
liked it." He was a good deal more gracious before I left. I
can always mollify him after I have been with him a day or two
—to a certain extent—but it goes down again directly, the
 moment my back is turned.
     I cannot spare my MS. [Evolution Old and New]. There is
not a day but I tinker it in one place or another. However,
 I am going to Kenilworth for a couple of days on Tuesday
morning, and will send it by book-post to-morrow evening. I
am about two-thirds through with the book and shall have it
done by the end of January. The greater part is translation from
Lamarck and Buffon, or transcription, with a few running
comments, from the elder Darwin and others. So far as I can
see, Charles Darwin is being a good deal discredited ; and if I do
not bring my book out soon it may easily be too late to be
effective. Someone in the Contemporary a year or so ago declared
Lamarck to be preferable to Darwin, and quoted Mivart as
calling Darwin's theory "puerile," which is too good a name
for it.
     I have had a sharp feverish attack since my return, and had
to lie absolutely by for a couple of days ; but it did me good, and
I am now very well. I have not done a stroke of painting for
some weeks, and can think of nothing till my book is done. The
next thing will be to finish the Pontifex novel, which should be
done by the end of April. And then I must think what I will
do next.

        292                     MISS COBBE                          xv1
  1878      I shall be at home Thursday or Saturday at 4.30 if you will
Aet. 43 come and have a cup of tea, but not Friday.
             I do not know what Miss Frances Power Cobbe had
        been doing, but I suppose the enclosure may have been
        a picture of her—brass buttons and all. As for the
        original young lady whose gazelles could not survive an
        intimate acquaintance with their mistress, Butler stowed
        her away in a pigeon-hole of his memory to wait till
        some suitable opportunity for leading her forth and
        making use of her should occur.

                       CHAPTER XVII
                                 1879
                 EVOLUTION OLD AND NEIV
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
                                           22 Beaumont Street, W.
                                                   3 Feb. 1879.
     My dear Mr. Butler—Why did you write on mourning 1879
 paper ? [I fancy I must have found some old mourning paper Aet. 43
and used it, having none other handy.—S. B.] Of course I
thought your aunt was dead. Do you indulge in black edges as
a pleasant exercise of the fancy, or are you officially mourning for
somebody ?
     Do not be too much cast down by the advt. in the Pall Mall.
It is an immense time since I saw the death of a Mrs. Lloyd in
any paper, so that if your aunt be saved as Harriet Butler she may
be translated as Mrs. Lloyd.
    [So far as I remember, I had seen the death of a Harriet
Butler in the Pall Mall—yes, it was 24 Jan. 1879—and said
that, as my aunt's maiden name was Harriet Butler, it was not
probable that she would be " translated " for ever so long. My
reason for desiring her " translation " (she was nearly 80) was that
I fondly hoped my father would, on her death, do something for
me out of the considerable addition to his income which would
accrue to him, and which I, on his death, should inherit under
my grandfather's will.—S. B.]
    This is one of the disadvantages of being a married woman
(see Beamish, Quetelet, or any probabilitarian). I wonder the
women's rights people have not made this double liability to
death one of their grievances. Besides, fifty or sixty years ago
the name Harriet was much more in fashion than it has ever been
since ; consequently a large crop of Harriets should drop in about
this time.
    I hope you are not working too hard. It seems to me that
                                 293

        294                  ELECTRIC LIGHT                             xv«
 1879 you will never rest. You know I always disbelieved in Trflbner's,
Aet. 43 so I am glad that you have nothing more to do with them.
            [Trttbner, finding that he should not be able to make Life
        and Habit (in which he had a half interest) pay, insulted me so
        grossly that I offered to pay for the whole myself and take it
        away at once. He jumped at this, and I, after trying sundry
        publishers in vain, left the frying-pan of Trtlbner for the fire of
        David Bogue. Before long TrObner apologised, and, when
        Bogue failed, begged me, almost with tears in his eyes, to
        come back to him, which I did, remaining with that firm till
        it became a limited liability company whereon I moved to
        Longmans.—S. B.]
             Do not forget that in your last letter you promised me some
        more MS. [This must have been of Evolution Old and New.—
        S. B.] And you are going to re-write what I have read, so it
        will be as good as two books to me by the time it is done. How
        glad I am that I am not one of the general public ! I should not
        get half the pleasure out of your writings.
             I shall come and see you soon, but when does not depend
        upon my will. The fact is, I have a swelled face and I shall
        come and see you when it has subsided a little ; for, besides my
        appearance (which is the most important consideration) my speech
        is inarticulate and the pain at times severe. It has been as big as
        the Albert Hall ; now it is no bigger than a house ; when it has
        shrunk to the size of a cottage then I will pay you a visit.
             I have been greatly worried of late. O for the soothing
         influence of religion ! Why has my faith been destroyed ? If I
         could only believe in the eternity of punishment ! If I could
        only think there was a place in Hell prepared for landlords where
         they will sit upon a serpent's knee, how happy I should be !
             I send you a tract, and remain yours truly,
                                                         E. M. A. Savage.
                               Butler to Miss Butler.
             14 March 1879—I went the other night to see the British
         Museum lit with the electric light, the superintendent of the
         Reading Room having offered me a ticket ; it looked very well ;
         and I also went last night to the Albert Hall to hear the
         Dettingen Te Deum (which is magnificent), and there I found
         more electric light, but not so good as at the British Museum.
         The chorus " To Thee Cherubim and Seraphim continually do
         cry " was wonderful. I have counted the " continually's " and
         find the word repeated exactly 51 times. If you will say the
         word " continually " ten times on each of your five fingers, you
         will find it gives you an idea of the fine effect produced. I heard

xv11          « A CLERGYMAN'S DOUBTS "                        295
it some years ago, and for some reason or other liked it less than 1879
most of Handel's works ; but last night quite changed me. Did Aet. 43
I tell you that some time ago I went to Elijah, determined to
like it, and with another man, too [H. F. Jones]—we having
both resolved to keep our minds open and to look out for the
good and not the bad ? Well, of course we saw some good, but
on the whole we hated it. I never mean to go and hear it again
if I can help doing so.
     I don't know anything about Sydney Dobell but will look
him up upon your recommendation. As a general rule I distrust
" energetic joyous temperaments," and, as you know, I am no
lover of poetry ; however I will have a look at him.
     A few years later we were writing and composing
Narcissus, the words of the last chorus of which are :
            How blest the prudent man, the maiden pure,
               Whose income is both ample and secure,
            Arising from consolidated Three
               Per Cent Annuities, paid quarterly.
     We remembered Handel's treatment of "continually,"
and thought we could not do better than imitate it for our
words " paid quarterly."
     Early in 1879, or at the close of 1878, Butler had
made the acquaintance of Mr. D'Avigdor, then editor of
The Examiner, in which paper appeared a correspondence,
nearly all written by Butler, and headed " A Clergyman's
Doubts." The first two letters were signed " An Earnest
Clergyman." He says that he was born about 1835, tne
year in which both Butler and Ernest Pontifex were born ;
he was brought up by an Evangelical aunt in the country ;
he went to school and to Cambridge, and, in 1857, partly
to please his aunt, took orders. He soon married and
was presented to a country living. Up to this time, like
Butler and Ernest, he had never heard that there was any
other side to the question of Christian evidences ; nor had
 he ever met any one either at home, at school, or at college,
either among his friends, his masters, or his tutors, who
 had ever hinted to him that there was any other side.
Then he read Essays and Reviews, The Origin of Species,
 and Bishop Colenso's writings on the Pentateuch. When
he laid down The Origin of Species " it had become plain
 to me that the Christ-idea, like every living form of faith

        296                      DOUBTS                         XVII
  1879 or living faith of form, had descended with modification,
Aet. 43 anc^ wnat was worse, that, through insufficient breeding,
        it had reverted to a remote ancestor and had resumed
        feral characteristics." Now that his eyes were open he
        found an omnipresent spirit of scepticism abroad in the
        world, declaring the fundamental propositions of the
        Christian religion to rest upon nothing worthy of the
        name of evidence. He examined for himself the grounds
        of this scepticism and found it justified. The Earnest
        Clergyman was now (i.e. 1879) nearly 45, with a wife
        and five children, a living worth £400 a year and a house,
        but no private means. The doctrines he was paid to
        teach were, if true, the most solemn of all truths, and, if
         not true, the most heardess of all mockeries. He believed
        them to be the latter ; and yet he must either continue to
        insist upon them or give up his living and plunge his wife
        and children into penury and want ; for he had been
        educated for the Church, and had no prospect of succeed
        ing in any other walk of life.
             In the next letter " Cantab " writes comfortingly :
        there does not exist one only standard of morality ; we
         need not all be martyrs and heroes ; no moral blame
        attaches to one who prefers dissembling his convictions
        to abandoning his means of subsistence ; there is much
         that can be done by a free-thinking clergyman who remains
         within the Church—probably more than if he left it.
             The Earnest Clergyman then confesses that he has
         already settled the question for himself on these lines ;
         but matters are not where they were twenty years ago,
         and he is doubtful whether what he then found sufficient
        ought to be so found now that the teaching of the Church
         has been distanced by modern learning. The question is, has
        not the time arrived for plain speaking ? May we not now
        leave off pretending that the emperor has any clothes on ?
             " Oxoniensis " is up in arms against a middle course.
         " No condemnation can be too great for the man who
        enters or remains in the Church while rejecting in his
        own mind all belief in the dogmas of Christianity."
             On this followed a letter signed, " One who thinks he
        knows a thing or two about Ethics," which could have

xv11                         ETHICS                       297
been written by no one except Butler. He used parts 1879
of it for the Dissertation on Lying in chapter v. of Alps et. 43
and Sanctuaries, and the whole will be found reprinted in
The Note- Books of Samuel Butler (19 12).
      " Cantab " administers more comfort—" If Christianity
does not contain all truth, must we conclude that it con
tains no truth ? "—counselling the Earnest Clergyman to
remain in the Church and do his best.
      " Oxoniensis " is still unsatisfied : " That which is of
God cannot, assuredly, be false in any even the smallest
particular." " Of all frauds, religious fraud is the worst,
and the true man will have nothing to do with it." He
sees that " One who thinks he knows a thing or two
about Ethics " does not deny the existence of truth, that
he recognises truth as present in an ever-varying dis
guise, and that she cannot be chained down to religious,
political, or ethical dogma ; but he considers the views
of the Earnest Clergyman to be " far in advance of the
philosophy of ' Cantab ' and ' Ethics ' because, believing
he has found the truth, he is unable to reconcile himself
to, and is unhappy in, a passive connivance with that
which he holds as falsehood."
      In the remaining letters a distinction is drawn between
the man who enters the Church as a sceptic and the man
who becomes a sceptic after having entered it ; and there
is much more about truth and expediency and the Articles
of the Christian creed, and as to the existence of any
moral teaching of the Church apart from the law of the
land and the common conscience of the country. Here
are the dates and the signatures of the letters :
    1879.
 15  Feb.     An Earnest Clergyman.
22   Feb.     An Earnest Clergyman.
22   Feb.     Cantab.
  1 March.    An Earnest Clergyman.
  1 March.    Oxoniensis.
  8 March.    (a) One who thinks he knows a thing or two about
                 Ethics ; (b) Cantab.
1 5 March.   Oxoniensis.
22 March.    Cantab.
22 March.    Ethics.

        298                        ATOMS                          xvn
  1879 22 March.     Lewis Wright.
Aet. 43 29 March.    Oxoniensis.
         5 April.    X. Y. Z. (including " The Righteous Man ").
        19 April.    An Earnest Clergyman.
        10 May.      E. D.
        17 May.      Sollicitus.
        14 June.     M. C. Hi me, Foyle College, Londonderry.
             I know that all the communications signed "An
        Earnest Clergyman," " Cantab," " Oxoniensis," " Ethics,"
        and " X. Y. Z." were written by Butler ; I believe that
        those signed " Lewis Wright " and " E. D." were written
        by him ; I am doubtful about the one signed " Sollicitus,"
        not because of any internal evidence, but because he did
        not keep a copy of it with the others ; and I am satisfied
        that he did not write the letter signed M. C. Hime. He
        wished to raise a real correspondence on the subject, and I
        remember dimly that some one else was drawn into it ;
        but whether or not more than one I cannot now say.
        The communication signed " X. Y. Z." is Butler's poem,
        " The Righteous Man," which is included in The Note-
        Books of Samuel Butler (19 12), and is given ante, p. 238.
        In order to connect it with the discussion he prefaced it
        with a few words comparing it to " the last six inches of a
        line of railway. There is no part of the road so ugly, so
        little travelled over, or so useless generally ; but they are
        the end, at any rate, of a very long thing."
             And so the matter dropped, no one's opinions being
        much shaken by anything said by any one else. It was,
        perhaps, a subject not suited for discussion in a newspaper,
        in that respect somewhat resembling atoms, of which he
        said in a note : " We shall never get people whose timers
        money to take much interest in atoms."
             The idea of writing these letters came into his head
        because he was then re-writing that part of The JVay of
        All Flesh which deals with Ernest's mental development
        when he was troubled by religious doubt, and this made
        him wish to re-state the difficulties with which he had
        himself struggled.

xv11         EVOLUTION OLD AND NEW                            299
                     Miss Savage to Butler.
     22 May 1879—I like none of your letters so well as "Ethics," 1879
which ought to have been an article, not a letter. It is perfectly A«. 43
lovely. I suppose you are "Cantab" too? I hope you have
been well paid for them. " Ethics " is worth any money ; but I
am afraid, being only among the correspondence, it may have
been passed over by many readers.
     On the 1st May 1879, Butler received the first copy
of Evolution Old and New, or the Theories of Buffon, Dr.
Erasmus Darwin, and Lamarck as compared with that of
Mr. Charles Darwin. For his purpose he had found it
necessary to include a memoir of each of the three earlier
evolutionists and to state the theories of all four with
sufficient fullness to bring out the points of resemblance
and difference between them.
      "Can we," asks Butler in the first chapter of his
book, " or can we not see signs in the structure of animals
and plants of something which carries with it the idea of
 contrivance so strongly that it is impossible for us to
 think of the structure without at the same time thinking
 of contrivance or design in connection with it ? " It is
 shown that the fundamental difference between the earlier
 writers and Mr. Charles Darwin is that the former gave
 a definite purpose to the variations whose accumulation
 results in species, whereas the latter considered the varia
 tions to be mainly accidental.
      Before the publication of The Origin of Species the
 popular notion was that each different species of plants
 and animals was the result of a special act of creation.
 Mr. Darwin's writings substituted for this the notion of
 descent with modification, which, though not a new idea,
 had not hitherto been accepted by the public.
      The full title of Mr. Darwin's book is On the Origin
 of Species by means of natural selection, or the preservation
 of favoured races in the struggle for life. It will be
 observed that the race has to be favoured before natural
 selection can act, just as with artificial selection, some
 favourable variation must arise before the breeder can

         300             A MINDLESS UNIVERSE                              xv1,
  1879 select it ; therefore it cannot fairly be said that natural
Aet. 43 selection originates species, though it may foster varia
         tions into species. Butler saw that the cause of the
         variations ought, if possible, to be ascertained. He
         thought the work of the nurse of less interest than that
        of the parent, and wanted to know how the races became
        favoured before selection, i.e. why the variations arose.
        He wanted, in short, to know something about the
        subject of Mr. Darwin's book— the origin of species.
            To me it seems that the origin of variations, whatever it is,
       is the true origin of species, and that this must, as Lamarck
       insisted, be looked for in the needs and experiences of the creatures
       varying. (Life and Habit, chapter xiii.)
            The fact that one in a brood or litter is born fitter for the
       conditions of its existence than its brothers and sisters, and, again,
       the causes that have led to this one's being born fitter—which
       last is what the older evolutionists justly dwelt upon as the most
        interesting consideration in connection with the whole subject—
       are more noteworthy factors of modification than the factor that
       an animal, if born fitter for its conditions, will commonly survive
       longer in the struggle for existence. (Evolution Old and New,
       chapter xx.)
            Butler's whole nature revolted against the idea that
       the universe was without intelligence, just as it had
       revolted against the idea that Rossura porch had not
       been designed. But where was the architect of the
       universe ? He could not return to the Jewish and
       Christian idea of a God designing his creatures from out
       side ; he saw, however, no reason why the intelligence
       should not be inside ; and then it would no longer be
       building, it would be growth with the intelligent God
       incorporated in the creatures.
            On the 24th May 1879, The Examiner published
       the first of eight articles entitled God the Known and God
       the Unknown, an Eirenicon. By Samuel Butler, author of
       Erewhon. These articles were republished by Mr. A. C.
       Fifield, in book form, in 1909, with a prefatory note by
       R. A. Streatfeild.
            He searches for God first in Pantheism with its " God
       is everything and everything is God," and fails to find

xv11              THE TREE OF LIFE                            301
him. We can see three gold-fish in a bowl of water as ^79
one family united through the persons of their parents, e ' 43
but we cannot in any sense see the bowl and the water
as part of the gold-fish. We associate the idea of God
with that of an organic living person, but the bowl and
the water, being inorganic, cannot be associated with a
living person. What Pantheists believe in is not a per
sonal God who governs and directs, but an impersonal
unconscious principle of life. Pantheists are really
Atheists.
      He next turns to orthodox Theism, which offers us
a God of a spiritual nature only and therefore impersonal
—a God that is not a God. Theism is merely Atheism
over again.
     There is a third possibility—to conceive of God as
we conceive of Hope, which we personify without
meaning that it has a real body. This will not do,
because no conception of God can have any meaning
for us unless it involves his existence as an independent
material living person.
     In Life and Habit he had put forward the idea that
we are one person with our ancestors.
    It follows from this that all living animals and vegetables
being—as appears likely, if the theory of evolution is accepted—
descended from a common ancestor, are in reality one person
and united to form a body corporate of whose existence, however,
they are unconscious. There is an obvious analogy between
this and the manner in which the component cells of our bodies
unite to form one single individuality, of which it is not likely
they have a conception, and with which they have probably
only the same partial and imperfect sympathy as we, the body
corporate, have with them. (Unconscious Memory, chapter v.)
     This one person, this one single individuality, this
vast Being is the real Tree of Life. " It is in this Person
that we may see the Body of God, and in the evolution
of this Person, the mystery of his Incarnation." (God
the Known and God the Unknown, chapter vi.)
     I am told that something like this conception of God
the Known is to be found in the writings of Fechner
(1801-1887), with which Butler was not acquainted; it

         3o2             GOD AND EVOLUTION                       xm
  1879 may possibly be found also in other and earlier writers ;
Aet. 43 Dut nothing like it can have been generally grasped and
         held as a literal fact until the idea of evolution had been
         generally accepted, and this acceptance of the idea of
        evolution we owe to Mr. Darwin who "found the
        world believing in fixity of species and left it believ
        ing — in spite of his own doctrine — in descent with
        modification." (Luck or Cunning? chapter xviii.) Nor,
        since it places inside the organism an intelligence that
        governs development, can this conception of God be, even
        now, held by any who believe that the modification of
        species is mainly due to the accumulation of variations
        that are accidental. Furthermore, it involves the percep
        tion of the oneness of personality between parents and
        offspring, the persistence of memory through all genera
        tions, the latency of this memory until rekindled by the
        recurrence of the associated ideas, and the unconsciousness
        with which repeated acts come to be performed. (Life
        and Habit, chapter v. "Personal Identity," and passim.)
        In other words, to agree entirely with Butler one must
        first accept evolution as modified by the theory of Life
       and Habit.
             Returning for a moment to the view that the story
       of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ is a nature
        myth, we find in this notion of God and man another
       form of the old myth. The God is inside the creature,
       and, the personality being continuous from parents to
        offspring, does literally both die with the parents and also
        rise again with new life in the offspring.
             For God the Unknown and much else bearing upon
       the subject the reader is referred to the articles them
       selves.
             My friend Herbert Edwin Clarke (see ante, p. 152)
       was much interested in the articles as they appeared in
       The Examiner, and, on discussing them with an opponent,
       was met by the objection that the distinction between the
       organic and inorganic was merely arbitrary. He did not
       know how to reply and appealed to Butler for help in
       his discomfiture. Butler had already come to see that
       we cannot deny life to the inorganic, and that the position

xvu            'A MODEST PANTHEISM"                             303
about Pantheism which he held when he wrote                      the 1879
articles would have to be abandoned. He replied :                      Aet. 43
     " Yes, I know ; there's a mess, and I'm in it. Stones
must be our relations—poor relations, no doubt, but still
relations."
      He returned to the subject more than once in
Unconscious Memory (1880), and in the Appendix added
to the second edition (1882) of Evolution Old and New,
wrote :
     The articles I intend re-casting and re-writing as they go
upon a false assumption ; but subsequent reflection has only
confirmed me in the general result arrived at—namely, the
omnipresence of mind in the universe.
      He often spoke of his religion as "a modest Pantheism,"
and, if he had re-written the articles, I think the re-casting
would have been confined to showing in what way his
 idea of Pantheism differed from that usually underlying
 the word ; and to his pointing out that, although we
 cannot see the bowl and the water as part of the gold
 fish, yet that their material is not without intelligence,
 and that God, who is Life, is in everything. And he
 went further than seeing the organic and the inorganic
 as undivided ; in 1893 he made this note which is
 reproduced in The Note-Books of Samuel Butler (191 2) :
                  The Super-Organ1c K1ngdom
     As the solid inorganic kingdom supervened upon the gaseous
 (vestiges of the old being, nevertheless, carried over into and still
 persisting in the new), and as the organic kingdom supervened
 upon the inorganic (vestiges of the old being, again, carried over
 into and still persisting in the new), so a third kingdom is now
 in process of development, the super-organic, of which we see
 the germs in the less practical and more emotional side of our
 nature.
      Man, for example, is the only creature that interests himself
 in his own past, or forecasts his future to any considerable extent.
 This tendency I would see as the monad of a new regime—a
 regime that will be no more governed by the ideas and habits
 now prevailing among ourselves than we are by those still
 obtaining among stones or water. Nevertheless, if a man be
 shot out of a cannon, or fall from a great height, he is, to all

         304                      EXHIBITIONS                           »ra
  1879 intents and purposes, a mere stone. Place anything in circum-
Aet. 43 stances entirely foreign to its immediate antecedents and those
         antecedents become non-existent to it ; it returns to what it
         was before they existed, to the last stage that it can recollect as
         at all analogous to its present.
              The first two reviews of Evolution Old and New both
         appeared on 17th May.            One was in The Academy,
        signed by Grant Allen, and the other in The Examiner,
        unsigned, but Mr. D'Avigdor told Butler that it was
        also by Grant Allen. Miss Savage, of course, had to see
        both, and neither was complimentary. The intimate
        friends of a sensitive writer who is much abused by
        reviewers find themselves in a difficult position if he
        writes many books. The obvious commonplaces are soon
        exhausted, and the sympathetic friends wish to avoid
        repeating themselves. A difficulty of this kind was not
        beyond the resources of Miss Savage. She wrote : " That
        flippant creature Allen Grant was soon ready with his
        notice : I suppose he is what they call a ready writer."
        Her quiet assumption of an inability to remember
        correctly the name of so insignificant a person as Grant
        Allen amused Buder more than the reviews annoyed him.
              In addition to her work at her club Miss Savage was
        at this time busy attending to the Lady Artists' Exhibi
        tion and afterwards to a one-man show. While engaged
        at the latter she wrote (22nd May) asking Butler to come
        and give her his opinion on some of the pictures, as it
        would be perfectly dreadful if she became attached to
       anything she ought to look down upon.
            My principal duty in the Ladies' Exhibition, which was to
       smile and smile and be a villain, devolves upon the artist's wife ;
       however, I daresay I shall be able to exercise my faculty for
       lying. I was not, indeed, called upon to show how supremely
       gifted I am in that respect during the last exhibition, for nobody
       wanted to buy either the Moons or Mrs. X's picture ; in fact I
       observed that most people, as soon as they set eyes on the latter,
       immediately walked away from it. They looked more curiously
       into the Moons, but I believe that half the people never arrived
       at making out what they were. They set them down as attempts
       at Whistlerism. . . .
            I had very hard work during all the last fortnight of the

xv11                     MRS. WARREN                              3°S
[Ladies'] Exhibition and don't know how I should have got 1879
through it without the consolation and ref1eshment of the book Aet. 43
[Evolution Old and New]. It cured my relaxed throat and my
ulcerated sore throat and alleviated the pains in my bones and
assisted me in my arithmetic and sweetened my temper and did as
much for me as if it had been the relic of a saint. . . .
     A Mr. and Miss Lloyd whom I know slightly came to the
gallery to-day. They looked so extraordinarily well and flourish
ing that I am sure there must be a corresponding depression in
the health of the other Lloyds, or that there very soon will be.
                       Miss Savage to Butler.
     12 "June 1879—I have been enquiring about the Ladies'
Guild from Miss Collingridge. There seem to be a good many
formalities to go through. I think the whole thing detestable
and should wait till I was nearly starving before I applied ; but
other people don't always think as I do. I don't think these sort
of institutions should be much encouraged ; the real use of them
is to enable the " Benevolent " to do with a flourish of trumpets
 what should be done as a simple matter of business by people of
 business. I have always found that the "Benevolent" expect
 work done for themselves to be done for nothing, or next to
 nothing, and I think the tendency of these societies is to make
 prices go down. . . .
     Do come and say good-bye before you go. Mrs. Warren is
 more and more amusing. She said the other day with a little
sentimental sigh :
     " How pictures of the places one has seen drors your thoughts
 back to them."
     So I said, "Yes ; that is why they are called 'drorings.'"
     I delight in hearing her read the newspapers. She was reading
 the account of some art sale or other : "the prices raging from
 /200 to thousands." The word " raging " so exactly expressing
 tne thing.
      Mrs. Warren, I suppose, must have been caretaker
or charwoman at the Exhibition. Butler made this note
about her.
     Mrs. Warren told Miss Savage that she criticised everything.
     " I criticised Disraeli's novels," she said, " to his face, but I
 didn't know it was 'im."
     She also said her husband, walking one evening at dusk in the
 Rosherville Gardens, overheard two people talking, one of whom
 he recognised by his voice as the Archbishop of York.
      VOL. I                                                   X

        3o6                   EDWARD LEAR                               XVII
  1879       "What was there," he asked, "before Creation ? "
Aet. 43      Miss Savage said she was hardly surprised at the Archbishop's
        asking this question, " for," she said, " I don't know that myself."
             "Lor! don't you?" exclaimed Mrs. Warren, "why my
        husband shouted out from the other side of the walk, ' Providence,
        to be sure,' and the Archbishop came over and shook hands with
        him and said he should preach upon it next Sunday at West
        minster Abbey. And he did, too."
             About the middle of June Butler went to Faido, where
        he stayed painting and writing till the beginning of
        August. He then went to Mesocco, in the Val Mesolcina,
        which comes down to Bellinzona from the San Bernardino,
        and there I joined him. After a few days we moved
        to Mendrisio, and one Sunday morning went over to
        Ligornetto, to the house of Signor Vela, the eminent
        sculptor. Morbelli and Hohenstein, two of the friends
        of Spartaco Vela who had been in London, came to
        Ligornetto from Milan for the day, and, after colazione,
        we went for a walk in the country, " very romantic and
        slippery " as Morbelli said. A description of the walk
        and of the gaiety of the party and of the wine we drank
        will be found in " A Day at the Cantine," chapter xxii.
        of Alps and Sanctuaries (1882).
             On leaving Mendrisio, Butler and I went to the
        Albergo Riposo on the Sacro Monte, above Varese, where
        we met Edward Lear, the artist, author of The Book
        of Nonsense. He is " the old Englishman " at the end
        of chapter xxiii. of Alps and Sanctuaries, who told us
        that at a recent festa on the Sacro Monte he had seen
        a drunken Englishman " who kept abusing everything
        and crying out ' Manchester's the place for me.' " I do
        not remember that Edward Lear told us anything else
        particularly amusing, but then neither did we tell him
        anything particularly amusing. Butler was seldom at his
        best when with a celebrated man. He was not successful
        himself, and had a sub-aggressive feeling that a celebrated
        man probably did not deserve his celebrity ; if he did
        deserve it, let him prove it. Possibly the celebrated man
        felt, as I did, that Butler was not merely waiting for the
        production of the proofs, but was more than half prepared

xv11                   LA MARTINA                      307
to find them unconvincing. If so, it is easy to under- 1879
stand why these meetings were usually somewhat chilly.     Aet. 43
      From Varese we drove to Angera, as we had done the
year before, and so to Arona, where we were joined by
Henry M. Paget, the young artist whom Butler had met at
Heatherley's, and who was abroad with his wife on his
wedding tour. They came with us to Orta, and Butler
showed them the chapels on the Sacro Monte there. The
next day we went to Varallo. The Pagets drove, but we
were rowed over the lake to Pella by an old lady who had
often rowed Butler across, and who had never been in a
train in her life except once when she went to Novara and
back for her son's wedding. Walking over the Colma
from Pella to Varallo we met another old friend of his, a
peasant woman bent under a burden ; she stopped and
shook hands with us, and smiled as she thanked him for
the empty wine bottle he had given her some years before,
after an al fresco luncheon in her neighbourhood. At
Civiasco we lunched at the trattoria kept by La Martina,
a jolly old lady, with the reputation of having been
generosa in her youth. She had bees on her verandah
and gave us some of the honey. Intending us to under
stand that it was not adulterated and not imitation honey,
she declared that it was " legittimo." Butler, who sym
pathised with those who were under grace, rather than
with those who were under the law, caught at her word
and replied :
     " Well, I cannot help that. Anyhow it is very good."
     La Martina laughed and said " Coraggio."
     We ate all her honey and she took it as a personal
compliment to herself. When I was at Varallo in 1909
they told me that La Martina had died the year before.,
and the trattoria was being kept on by her daughter.
     At Varallo we found the Pagets, and Butler introduced
us to Dionigi Negri and his other friends in the town,
and showed us the frescoes and pictures by Gaudenzio,
and took us up the mountain and round the chapels, and
pointed out the best of the figures. The next day we all
four went to Fobello where we left the Pagets. We
walked over the Baranca in the rain to Ponte Grande, and

       308                CAPTAIN CAREY                                xvn
1*79 down to Vogogna where we heard the bells playing the
   43 merry little tune given in chapter xxiv. of Alps and
       Sanctuaries, which they did " because a baby had just died,
       but we were told it was nothing to what they would have
       played if it had been a grown-up person."
           So we went down to Baveno, and by steamer to
      Locarno, then by train to Biasca and over the Lukmanier
      to Dissentis, Coire, Zurich, Basel, and returned to London,
      having been abroad together for three weeks.
           The reader will not be in a position to appreciate Miss
      Savage's next letter (24th September) until he has been re
      minded or informed of the circumstances attending the death
      of the Prince Imperial in Zululand on 1st June 1 879. He
      had volunteered for service with the British army sent out
      to fight the Zulus ; and on the day of his death assisted in
      a reconnaissance, which was virtually under the command
      of Captain Carey. They were surprised by the enemy.
      Captain Carey and the small party which had accom
      panied the Prince galloped off, and the Prince, whose
      horse bolted, was surrounded and killed.
           We are not here concerned to decide exactly how
      much blame attached to Captain Carey in the matter; it
      is enough to say that, at the time, his conduct was viewed
      by most people in the light in which Miss Savage views it.
      She speaks of " Carev's letter ; " this refers to a letter
     which Carey wrote to The Christian,and which subsequently
     appeared in The Times.           Miss Savage is not likely to
     have seen The Christian, and what she sent to Butler was
     probably this extract from The Times of 28th August 1 879 :
                             Capta1n Carey
          We have received from The Christian the following letter as
      having been written by Captain Carey :
                                                      Southsea, Aug. 15.
          My dear S1r—May I ask you to kindly insert a request for
      praise on my behalf in the next number of your journal ? Since
      the first moment of my arrest I took the whole matter to my
      heavenly Father. I left it in His hands, reminding Him constantly
      of His promise to help. He has borne my burden for me. He
      has sustained me, my wife, and family, in our distress ; and He

XV11                      CAREY'S PLAN                          309
has finally wiped away tears from our eyes.            There were 1879
certain circumstances at first that it seemed, owing to the Aet. 43
bewildered statement of the survivors, difficult to explain ; but
though my faith wavered his promises endured, and He, in his
good time, brought me to the haven where I would be. I feel
that it would be wrong to keep from my fellow-believers such
a wonderful example of God's goodness and power in influencing
the hearts of men ; and, though I hate publicity, I feel compelled
to add my testimony to the power of prayer.
     Believe me, dear Sir, yours very faithfully,
                                             Brenton Carey,
                                         Captain, 98M Regiment.
                        Miss Savage to Butler.
    24 Sept. 1879—I hope you are at home again ; you said you
should be back on the 20th, and if I don't hear from you soon I
shall place the matter in the hands of the Lord, according to
Carey's plan, and then you will see if you don't have to come
home, whether you will or no. I enclose Carey's letter, in case
you may not have seen it, and can assure you that I have proved
the efficacy of his method.
     Only last Friday, being in despair about ways and means for
carrying on the club, I cried out in my anguish that there was
nothing to be done but to place the matter in the hands of the
 Lord. He gave Carey grace to show a clean pair of heels to the
foe ; He might help us to escape from our creditors. When the
committee (which had met at the house of one of the members)
was over, we started on our way back to the club, and, as I went
along Tottenham Court Road and Goodge Street, I took care to
remind the Lord that I expected Him to dry the tears from my
eyes ; and, on arrival at the club, we found that our faith had
saved us and that there was a letter for me containing /5, which
sum, though not quite so large as we should have l1ked, will
nevertheless be our salvation, and perhaps the Lord will send us
some more. I should have said " peradventure," but one can't get
up the technical expressions all at once. Since Friday, therefore,
we have all become altered beings ; and that is thanks to Carey,
without whose sublime example I should never have thought of
having recourse to the Lord. If I can only persuade you to do
likewise, the Prince Imperial will not have died in vain.
     Thank you for your last letter. It seems that Grant Allen has
a little circle of admirers. How is it that one never hears of these
geniuses ? I saw a man on Sunday who said that he (Grant
Allen) was " grand " ; but he also admired Theophrastus Such,
which I could not read, not could anybody in the club, though we

        310         MISS SAVAGE AND ISABELLA                            x™
  1879 kept the book four weeks and everybody made a show of
Aet. 43 beginning to read it. The only bit in the least readable is a crib
        from Erewhon—a most barefaced crib. I have been reading
        Mary Wollstonecraft's Letters to Imlay. What an odious woman
        she was ! It is quite horrible that she should have been so good-
        looking, but I daresay the portraits are flattered.        Fancy a
        woman close on forty always speaking of herself as a " girl " !
            I hope you are really quite well now—why did you not write
        to me again ? I suppose you saw that Buffon has been patronised
        and made much of at the British Association ; that is thanks to you,
        of course. So you see that you have done some good after all ;
        for I suppose that Mr. Mivart would not have taken Buffon under
        his fostering care if you had not written Evolution \Old and
        New] ; and you have afforded George Eliot an opportunity for
        helping herself, greatly to the advantage of her readers. And yet
        I daresay you want more than this—did I not always tell you
        that you were most unreasonable ?
             One Saturday afternoon during this autumn I went
        to tea with Butler and met Miss Savage. Here let me
        recall to the reader Edward Overton's words about
        Alethea in chapter xviii. of The Way of All Flesh, when
        they meet at Ernest's christening : " Each time I
        saw her I admired her more and more, as the best,
        kindest, wittiest, most lovable, and, to my mind, hand
        somest woman whom I had ever seen." Except for the
        words " lovable " and " handsomest," this accurately
        conveys Butler's idea of Miss Savage ; and the word
        " lovable " may stand if it be understood as one would
        use it in speaking of an aunt or a sister, but if as one
     '  would use it in speaking of the love which leads to rnaxriage
        between man and woman, it is as inapplicable to Miss
v*'     Savage as is the other word, " handsomest." I knew
        this ; Butler had so prepared me that I did not expect
        another Isabella ; nevertheless, her appearance was a
        shock and a disappointment. I was not prepared for
        her differing in appearance so violently as she did from
        his description of Alethea.
             For there was about Miss Savage that kind of
        dowdiness which I used to associate with ladies who
        had been at school with my mother. On the other
        hand, there was about her something which I never

xvn                        MISS RYDER                           311
remarked in any of my mother's schoolfellows—a most 1879
attractive expression of friendliness and good humour. Aet. 4J
When one hears a great deal of a person one involuntarily
forms a mental image which usually has to undergo
modification after one sees the original. The only part
of my preconceived portrait of Miss Savage that was of
any use to me in forming a truer mental image of her
appearance was this expression of friendliness and good-
humour. I regret to say that I did not see her oftener
than three or four times in all.
      Here are two notes about her which Butler made at
various times :
                  The Berners Street Refuge
     It was Miss Savage who got the refuge put up in the middle
of the street where Berners Street debouches into Oxford Street.
She wrote to the authorities that it was in the direct route from
Berners Street to the Houses of Parliament. She really wanted
it because her club was in Berners Street.
     A friend of hers could see a certain tall telegraph post from
her window, so Miss Savage wrote to the right people telling
them it would be proper for them to put a weathercock on the
top of it, and they did so.
                            M1ss Ryder
     At Miss Savage's club Miss Ryder said she should never marry
—it was so degrading ; and she tossed her Httle button of a nose.
     " But what will you do," said Miss Savage, " when some one
falls in love with you ? " (" I took care," she said to me, " not to
say, if some one, etc. ").
     " He will never presume to tell me that he has fallen in love
with me," said Miss Ryder.
     " But suppose you have fallen in love with him ? "
     " How dare you say such a thing to me ? "
     Enter old Miss Andrews and others who are appealed to.
Miss Andrews flies into a passion on hearing love abused, and
says she only wishes some one had fallen in love with her. The
others chime in, and Miss Ryder, finding she was getting the
worst of it, called them a parcel of old maids. Whereon the
melee became general.

        312             A MAN OF THE WORLD                             xvn
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
  1879       5 Nov. 1879—My poor foot is not badly sprained, but quite
Aet. 43 sufficiently. I fell in my own familiar Goodge Street [in which,
        it will be remembered, John Piclcard Owen was born], and was
        not hurt by the fall but by the picking of me up, which was
        suddenly accomplished by three young men of extraordinary
        strength and energy. They meant well, but I wish they had
        been taught that " point de zele " is the best rule of conduct on
        all occasions, especially for persons of great physical force.
              She also told him she had been to the Sunday Social
        Union Soiree. " The Society seems to have been founded
        for the purpose of enabling the irreligious to spend their
         Sundays sadly, and I am sure, if that was the intention,
         it has achieved its purpose."
              This same autumn or winter I also made Pauli's
         acquaintance. There had been a suggestion, I forget
         who made it, that I should go to Shanghai as a solicitor,
         and Butler recommended my talking the matter over
         with Pauli, who, he said, was a man of the world, and of
         whose opinion he thought very highly. So I called on
         him in his chambers and did not go to Shanghai, probably
         less in consequence of Pauli's advice than because I had
         no intention of going there. I saw Pauli frequendy after
         this, but only on business, for he would have nothing to
         do with any of Butler's friends in any other way.
              Butler had this story about him in proof of his being
         a man of the world. Pauli met some one who asked
         him to dine :
              " Quite quietly, you know," said the host, genially,
         " only myself and my wife—that is—well, of course, she's
         not really my wife."
              " No, no, naturally," replied Pauli.
              Butler always spoke of Pauli as being good to animals.
         He instructed his clerk not to kill any mice caught in
         his chambers ; he was to make them wards in Chancery ;
         that is, he was to let them loose in the court of Vice-
         Chancellor Malins ; under the guardianship of that
         amiable old gentleman they would be sure to be kindly
         treated.

xvn              FINANCIAL TROUBLES                      313
      If Pauli saw a cat or a dog sitting on a doorstep he 1879
would ring the bell, so that the owners might take the        4J
poor beast in. Butler was delighted with this, and tried
it himself, but made the mistake of politely waiting till
the servant opened the door ; then he explained why he
had rung, and it appeared that the poor beast did not
belong to those people, and they had been doing all they
could to get rid of it.
      Late in 1879 Butler found himself at the end of his
financial tether. He and Pauli had been living on the
 money that was left after the crash of the companies,
 a crisis was imminent, and he had no alternative but to
 ask his father for help. He did it in the form of consult
 ing a Shrewsbury solicitor as to the possibility of raising
 money upon his reversion to the Whitehall property,
 knowing that a contingent reversion is not a very market
 able commodity but intending that his action should
 come to his father's ears. A voluminous and painful
 correspondence ensued, the father insisting on knowing
 all about the son's position, and especially about Pauli,
 who, he had been informed as the result of private
 enquiries, was making £ 1 000 a year. Butler showed his
 father's letter with this statement to Pauli who indignantly
 denied that his income was more than enough to cover
 his expenses—he had to make a certain show to get
  business, he would certainly get none if he did not, and
  so on. Butler remembered his father's saying that in
 New Zealand Pauli had made £800 a year as editor of
  a newspaper there ; he looked upon the two statements
  as of a piece, and accepted Pauli's account of the matter.
 Also he had absolute confidence that Pauli would not
  have taken money from him unless he had been on his
  beam ends and in imminent danger of sinking.
       He wrote to his father a letter 20 pages long (4th
  Nov. 1879) telling him, as well as he could, how much
  he had brought back with him from New Zealand, how
  much he had given Pauli, how much he had invested in
  Hoare's companies, how much he had induced various
  friends, including Pauli, to invest, how much had been
  lost, how much was left over, and how he and Pauli had

        3H                   EXPLANATIONS                       xm
  1879 spent it. He could not tell all these sums exactly
Aet. 43 because he had not kept exact accounts, and, especially,
        he could not tell how much he had given Pauli. He
        contended that so long as he had helped Pauli out of
        income there was nothing to complain of; and that as to
        his helping him out of capital, which he had done since
        the smash, his reason was that he was responsible for
        Pauli's having put all the money he could raise into the
        companies. He had induced Mr. Heatherley to put
        £400, and two other friends to put ^200 each, into one
        of the companies. He repaid these three friends their
        losses in lump sums, and considered that what he was
        doing for Pauli amounted to repaying him by instalments.
        He asked his father to join with his aunt and himself in
        cutting off the entail of the Whitehall property and in
        resettling it so that, after the determination of their life
        interests, his reversion should be absolute and not merely
        contingent upon his surviving them. This would cost
        his father nothing, and would give Butler an interest
        on which he could raise money ; thus he would get the
        quid pro quo which he contended ought to have been
        given him when he was induced, for no consideration, to
        agree to the sale of the house.
            Cutting off the entail and giving Butler an absolute
        interest could only have been done at the expense of those
        remaindermen who had, or would have had, an interest in
        the property in the event of Butler's predeceasing his
        father. Canon Butler might have given them some
        equivalent, but it would have required consideration and
        probably a complete readjustment of his testamentary dis
        positions which he was not disposed to undertake. It was
        scarcely to be expected that he should agree to put his
        eldest son in a position to go on helping Pauli. Canon
        Butler, however, appeared satisfied with the explanation of
        why Butler had helped him, so long as it was done out of
        income. A great many letters passed and led to two
        results ; the first was an agreement that Canon Butler
        should allow ^300 a year to his son, who undertook to
        give credit for anything he made by writing in magazines
        or otherwise, and who also undertook to do no more

xv11                    WILL-SHAKING                             315
for Pauli.        The other result will appear from this 1879
letter :                                                              Aet 43
                        Butler to his Father.
                                            15 Cl1fford's Inn, E.C.
                                                  10 Nov. 1879.
      My dear Father—It is impossible for me to pretend that I
am indifferent to your decision to give me only a life interest in
the greater part of what you had intended to leave me ; on the
contrary, I regard it as almost the heaviest and most far-reaching
 blow which a father can inflict upon a son, and feel it accordingly.
Nor yet can you expect me to acquiesce in the sufficiency of the
reason you have given for your decision. At the same time, the
 matter is one which is so entirely within your own control that
 it is impossible for me to argue with you concerning it.—I am
 Your affte Son,                                      S. Butler.
       Readers of The Way of All Flesh will now understand
 why Theobald shakes his will at Ernest.
       Butler sent all the correspondence to Miss Savage, but
she said it rather bewildered her ; and I am afraid he did
not get much direct sympathy out of her. She did her
best, however, and even suggested a subject for a magazine
story.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
      10 Nov. 1879—Your father reminds me of Jehovah in the
desert. I hope you are as "son-like" to him as you can be. I
am sure he is very "father-like" to you ! I shall remember him
in my maledictions. He is quite right about the magazines.
Why don't you write twaddle ? Why don't you be common
place ? I am not sure that I should not like you a great deal
better myself if you were. If I were your near relation I am
sure I should not like you at all. I can only just put up with
your superiority as it is. I hope that by this time your worry is
all over and that your father has become reasonable again.
      I am much better and went to the club on Friday and
Saturday, Mrs. Lowe taking me in a carriage ; today I am so
much recovered that I intend to go thither in an omnibus, and
expect to be able to walk about as usual in another week or ten
days. I have been dipping into the Books of Moses, being some
times at a loss for something to read while shut up in my apart
ment. You know that I have never read the Bible much,
consequently there is generally something of a novelty that I
hit upon. As you do know your Bible well, perhaps you can

        316            MISS ARABELLA BUCKLEY                            xvn
  1879 tell me what became of Aaron. The account given of his end
Aet. 43 in Numbers xx. is extremely ambiguous and unsatisfactory.
        Evidently he did not come by his death fairly, but whether he
        was murdered secretly for the furtherance of some private ends,
        or publicly in a state sacrifice, I can't make out. I myself rather
        incline to the former opinion, but I should like to know what
        the experts say about it. A very nice exciting little tale might
        be written on the subject, in the style of the police stories in All
        the Tear Round, called "The Mystery of Mount Hor, or What
        Became of Aaron ? " Don't forget to write to me soon.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
            24 Dec. 1879—I am amused by your father. He thought it
        would be an act of folly if you raised money on your reversion.
        It seems to me that that is precisely what you are doing by the
        present arrangement.
             [He had intimated that he should deduct any monies I now
        had from him from what he should leave me.—S. B.]
            You should send him a Christmas card, one of Miss Colling-
        ridge's with a text—but perhaps he might like it, so better leave
        it alone.
            My cat has taken to mulled port and rum punch. Poor old
        dear ! he is all the better for it. Dr. W. B. Richardson says that
        the lower animals always refuse alcoholic drinks, and gives that as
        a reason why humans should do so too.
            A very pretty reason, is it not ?
             I do not know when Butler made the acquaintance of
        Miss Arabella Buckley, who, as has been stated (ante, p.
        104), afterwards married Dr. Fisher. She was the daughter
        of the Rev. John Wall Buckley, Vicar of St. Mary's,
        Paddington, and was well known as a scientific lady,
        secretary to Sir Charles Lyell, and author of The Fairy-
        Land of Science, and other works. On the 25 th November
        1879, at Paddington Vicarage, Butler met Alfred Russel
        Wallace. He had met him and Dr. Carpenter at Marsh-
        man's in 1865 (ante, p. 127), and Wallace had recently
        written the review of Life and Habit which appeared in
        Nature at the end of March 1879, a^out sixteen months
        after the publication of the book. In My Life, by
        Alfred Russel Wallace (Chapman & Hall, 1905), the
        author, speaking of spiritualism, on which subject he
        published a book in 1879, says (vol. II. p. 296) :

xv11           ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE                             317
     Among the friends with whom I investigated the subject was 1879
Mr. Marshman, at that time Agent-General for New Zealand, Aet. 43
and Miss Buckley. Both were friends of Samuel Butler, the
author of those remarkable works Erewhon and Life and Habit.
Mr. Marshman invited him [1865] to a seance at his house with
myself and several other friends, but he thought it all trickery.
I sent him [1879] a copy of my book and he wrote me three
letters in a week, chiefly to explain that the whole subject bored
him. In his first letter he says that Mr. Marshman and Miss
Buckley are two of the clearest-headed people he knows, and
therefore he cannot help believing there must be something in it.
" But," he says, " what I saw at the Marshmans' was impudent
humbug." In the second he gives a curious revelation of the
state of his mind in a personal anecdote. He writes : " Granted
that wonderful spirit-forms have been seen and touched and then
disappeared, and that there has been no delusion, no trickery—
well, / don't care. I get along quite nicely as I am. I don't
want them to meddle with me. I had a very dear friend once,
whom I believed to be dying, and so did she. We discussed the
question whether she could communicate with me after death.
'Promise,' I said, and very solemnly, 'that if you find there are
means of visiting me here on earth —that if you can send a
message to me—you will never avail yourself of the means, nor let
me hear from you when you are once departed? Unfortunately she
recovered, and never forgave me. If she had died, she would have
come back if she could ; of that I am certain by her subsequent
behaviour to me. I believe my instinct was perfectly right ; and
I will go farther : if ever a spirit-form takes to coming near me,
I shall not be content with trying to grasp it, but, in the interests
of science, / will shoot it."
    The third is a very nice letter, and is a kind of apology for
what he thought I might consider rather unreasonable in the
others ; and I will therefore give it, in order that my readers may
not, through me, get a wrong idea of this remarkably gifted,
though eccentric, writer.
     Accordingly Wallace reproduces the letter, which is
interesting as an example of Butler's scrupulousness in
matters of common courtesy, but not otherwise ; for it
was written merely to apologise for any rudeness he
might have been guilty of. I was puzzled by Wallace
giving the date of the letter as 1859, and wrote to
inquire whether there was not some mistake. Wallace
replied that it should be 1879, anj» tnat being fourteen
years after the event, he concluded that the impression of

         318              DARWIN'S PREDECESSORS                          Xv,1
  1879 the seance, if it made any, had by that time died away.
Aet. 43 gut the impression na(j not died away ; Butler remembered
         the meeting very clearly and often spoke of the contrast
         between the way in which Wallace was taken in by the
         trickery and Carpenter saw through it. His note about
         it is given ante, p. 127. I did not tell Wallace about this
         note, nor did I tell him that the personal anecdote, though
         it correctly revealed the state of Buder's mind on the
         subject of spiritualism, had nevertheless been invented,
         and probably expressly for him. Buder thought that
         any one capable of swallowing the humbug of the seance
         would easily swallow the humbug about the lady who
        recovered ; and the quotation from Wallace's book shows
        that he was justified. He would not have written such a
        story to Dr. Carpenter.
              Evolution Old and New was not well received by the
        reviewers. It may, however, be said that one of the
        author's objects in writing it, to show that the idea of
        descent with modification did not originate with Mr.
        Darwin, is now in a fair way to be accomplished. A
        writer in The Times Literary Supplement, 24th June 1909,
        reviewing The Foundations of The Origin of Species, edited
        by Francis Darwin ; Darwin and Modern Science, edited
        by A. C. Seward ; and Mendel's Principles of Heredity, by
        W. Bateson, wrote :
             Of these three books, the first two are published in connection
       with the celebrations which are taking place in Cambridge this
        week to commemorate the hundredth anniversary of Charles
       Darwin's birth, and the fiftieth anniversary of the publication of
        The Origin of Species. . . .
             It is scarcely necessary to remind the reader that Darwin was
        not the originator of the idea of evolution. It is just necessary,
        because misapprehension on this point is widely distributed and
        finds frequent expression in current literature and in the press,
        and consists, in its most insidious form, in the use of the terms
        " Darwinism " and " evolution " as if they were synonymous
        terms. How this curious mistake arose it is difficult to imagine.
        But it is possible that the boycott of Samuel Butler (whose
        Evolution Old and New leaves no doubt on the point) by the
        men of science who were contemporary with him may have had
        something to do with it. Professor H. F. Osborn's From the

xvn            MIND IN THE UNIVERSE                            319
Greeks to Darwin had orthodox science as a chaperon ; but it 1879
probably has not been sufficiently widely read to influence those Aet. 43
who reach public opinion. A happy omen that the day of this
fallacy is over is seen in the fact that the first essay in Darwin
and Modern Science entitled " Darwin's Predecessors," from the
pen of Professor J. Arthur Thomson, deals with the evolutionists
before Darwin.
     These sentences give the impression that the writer (I
do not know who he was) had some special reason for
 thinking that Butler's scientific books were boycotted by
 the scientific men of the time. Butler certainly thought
so himself, but beyond straws showing the direction of
 the wind he had nothing definite to go upon.
     Another object of the book, to restore mind to the
universe, is also finding more popular favour than it met
with until recently. If Butler had not written, some one
else would have had to do his work before Lamarck
would have been treated with the respect which we now
find paid to him.
     Among the straws showing which way the wind was
blowing in 1879 was what Butler speaks of as "the
manner in which Mr. Darwin met Evolution Old and                      <.
New." In February 1879 a German scientific journal
called Kosmos published an article by Dr. Ernst Krause
devoted to the life and works of Dr. Erasmus Darwin.
On the 22nd of the same February The Examiner
contained the first announcement of the approaching
publication of Evolution Old and New, and this was
followed by other announcements in other literary journals
describing the book as " a comparison of the theories of
BufFon, Dr. Erasmus Darwin, and Lamarck with that
of Mr. Charles Darwin, with copious extracts from the
works of the three first-named writers."
     From these announcements, any one who had read
Life and Habit and was familiar with the writings of Mr.
Charles Darwin and of his grandfather, Erasmus, would
have known what sort of book to expect. In May
Evolution Old and New was advertised and published.
     In November 1879 Murray published Erasmus
Darwin, by Ernst Krause. Translated from the German

        320                     FOOT-NOTES                                xvn
 1879 by W. S. Dallas, with a preliminary notice by Charles
Aet. 43 Darwin. It appears from the preface that Dr. Krause's
        part of the book consisted of his article in Kosmos, of
        which he had allowed Charles Darwin and his brother,
        Erasmus, to have a translation made. There is a foot
        note to this :
            Mr. Dallas has undertaken the translation, and his scientific
        reputation, together with his knowledge of German, is a guarantee
        for its accuracy.
             The preface goes on to say that Charles Darwin,
        having private materials for adding to the knowledge of
        Erasmus Darwin's character, had written a preliminary
        notice. Particulars are given, two books (Miss Seward's
        Memoirs of the Life of Dr. Darwin and Dr. Dowson's
        lecture, Erasmus Darwin: Philosopher, Poet, and Physician)
        are mentioned, and at the end of the preface is this second
        footnote :
            Since the publication of Dr. Krause's article, Mr. Butler's
        work Evolution Old and New, 1879, has appeared, and this
        includes an account of Dr. Darwin's life, compiled from the two
        books just mentioned, and of his views on evolution.
             Butler accordingly read Erasmus Darwin under the
        impression that it was an accurate translation of Dr.
        Krause's article as it had appeared in Kosmos the pre
        ceding February. When he came to the last sentence it
        pulled him up :
             Erasmus Darwin's system was in itself a most significant first
        step in the path of knowledge which his grandson has opened up
        for us ; but the wish to revive it at the present day, as has actually
        been seriously attempted, shows a weakness of thought and a
        mental anachronism which no one can envy.
              It seemed to Butler that this sentence might, or
        rather must, have been written by some one who had
        read Evolution Old and New published in May, in which
        case it could not have appeared in Kosmos published in
         the preceding February ; and yet the accuracy of Mr.
         Dallas's translation of the February article was expressly
        guaranteed by "his scientific reputation together with
         his knowledge of German." He sent to Germany for

XVII                   PUZZLED                       321
Kosmos, and began to learn German. By the time the 1879
magazine came he knew enough of the language to see Aet. 4J
that the original article did not contain any of the last
six pages of the translation, and that there were other
points of difference which showed, as it seemed to him,
that the article must have been altered in the light of,
and with a view to, Evolution Old and New. He was
puzzled and uncertain how to act.
     vol. 1

   ^ /kj> /ft «&»<*.->- yz ***
Ae

u-
    r*iv6«~*r-
  1

/?i*>/6s/6sy
xv1n           A WORKING HYPOTHESIS                         323
Charles Darwin go out of his way to put those two 1880
notes into his preface ? He had practically told the Aet. 44
reader that if the translated article contained any passage
which appeared to condemn Evolution Old and New,
such passage must have been written without reference
to Evolution Old and New, because that book was not
published until after the original German article had
appeared ; and the translation of the article was stated to
be accurate. And Butler could not believe that the
passages interpolated into the English version really had
been written without reference to Evolution Old and New.
According to his custom he constructed a working
hypothesis, and it was a very unsatisfactory one ; but
that was no reason why it should not be modified if Mr.
Darwin could supply more facts. He accordingly wrote
to him (2nd January 1880) asking for an explanation—
" an explanation which," as he says in chapter iv. of
Unconscious Memory, " I would have gladly strained a
good many points to have accepted." Mr. Darwin
replied the next day, and the two letters, together with
other documents relating to this controversy, are given
in full in an Appendix (post); In his reply Mr. Darwin
admitted that the article had been altered before trans
lation, and added :
    This is so common a practice that it never occurred to me to
state that the article had been modified ; but now I much regret
that I did not do so.
     He also promised that if there should be a reprint of
the English version of Erasmus Darwin, he would state
that the original article had been modified before transla
tion ; but he said nothing about why he had apparently
gone out of his way to state that the article had not been
modified.
     Butler was not satisfied. He was ready to strain
points, but no amount of straining would turn this into
an explanation which he could accept. It was admitted
that in the evolution of Dr. Krause's article from the
German magazine to the English book variations had
arisen, but the question as to their cause and origin was

        324                 DARWIN'S SILENCE                           xvm
  1880 left untouched. Butler took the teleological view that
Aet. 44 they had been put there on purpose, and thought it ought
        to have occurred to Mr. Darwin to mention them ;
        especially as it did occur to him to mention that Evolution
        Old and New had appeared since the original article, of
        which he was giving a translation guaranteed to be
        accurate.
             Butler could do very little ; he was like the sheep
        and the hens of the Righteous Man, and lived " not
        in any odour of defencefulness." As for the working
        hypothesis, he saw nothing for it but to suppose that he
        was right, and that Mr. Darwin had undertaken the
        publication of the English translation of Erasmus Darwin
        as a reply to Evolution Old and New. The dates would
        allow of this, because, as I have stated at the close of the
        preceding chapter, the Kosmos article appeared in February
        1879 and on the 22nd of the same month the approach
        ing publication of Evolution Old and New was announced.
        Butler informed Mr. Darwin that he should lay the
        matter before the public and wrote to The Athenaeum a
        letter which appeared 31st January 1880. The letter
        concludes with these words :
            It is doubtless a common practice for writers to take an
        opportunity of revising their works ; but it is not common when
        a covert condemnation of an opponent has been interpolated into
        a revised edition, the revision of which has been concealed, to
        declare with every circumstance of distinctness that the con
        demnation was written prior to the book which might appear to
        have called it forth, and thus lead readers to suppose that it must
        be an unbiassed opinion.
             Charles Darwin did not reply, and Butler was con
        firmed in his supposition that his working hypothesis was
        correct.
            In this supposition he was mistaken ; for, although
        Charles Darwin did not publish any reply in The
        Athenaeum or elsewhere, he might have done so. On
        reading Butler's letter, he looked up his papers and
        found that he had forgotten something. He had written
        to Butler, 3rd January 1880, that the alteration of articles
        on republication was so common a practice that it never

 XVIII                   FOOT-NOTES                           325
occurred to him to mention that Dr. Krause's article had 1880
been modified ; nevertheless it had, in fact, occurred to Aet. <U+2666>4
him to mention this. I do not mean that he had intention
 ally written to Butler something which he knew to be
 untrue. What had happened was that the preface to
Erasmus Darwin (the book which contained the English
version of Dr. Krause's article) originally included these
words :
     Dr. Krause has taken great pains and has largely added to his
essay since it appeared in Kosmos.
       This sentence formed the opening of a paragraph
containing matter which subsequently became irrelevant
and was struck out in the proof ; but, unhappily, Darwin
did not observe that he was striking out more than he
intended ; for, besides striking out the irrelevant part of
the paragraph, he also struck out these opening words,
and, when he wrote to Butler, 3rd January 1880, he
 had forgotten that they had ever been written. So long
as the words stating that Dr. Krause had altered his
article between February and November were in the
 preface, the first foot-note guaranteed the accuracy of the
translation of the modified article ; and the second foot
note explained how it had been possible for Dr. Krause
to make the modifications with Butler's book before him.
But when the words were struck out, the unforeseen and
unintended result followed that the meaning of both the
foot-notes became altered. The first foot-note about
Mr. Dallas now referred to the unmodified article, and
practically declared that it had been translated as it
originally appeared in Kosmos; and the second note, that
Evolution Old and New had appeared since Kosmos, con
firmed this meaning by implying particularly that nothing
in the translated article could possibly have got there in
consequence of Evolution Old and New.
      It appears, moreover, from the correspondence sent me
by Mr. F. Darwin, that Charles Darwin sent to Dr. Krause
a copy of Butler's book, Evolution Old and New, when
that book was published in May 1879. It was, of course,
quite right of him to do so, if only because it contained

       326               PROPOSED LETTERS                           xvm
 1880 the most recently published account of Erasmus Darwin,
Aet.44 and he knew that Krause was modifying his article. In
       sending it, he hoped that Dr. Krause would " not expend
       much powder and shot on Mr. Butler, for he really is
       not worthy of it. His book is merely ephemeral."
            When Darwin realised that in writing to Butler he
       had made a mistake, his instinct was to write to The
       Athenaeum in explanation, and he prepared a letter
       printed in the Appendix as " Proposed letter I." I
       cannot say why this proposed letter is dated 24th
       January 1880. Butler's letter certainly did not appear
       till 31st January. It is possible it may have been ready
       for, and crowded out of, the preceding number of The
       Athenaeum (24th January), and that Darwin had seen it in
       proof, but this seems unlikely. Nothing, however, turns
       upon the point.
            The letter was not sent to The Athenaeum because it
       was " disapproved by everyone "—that is to say by every
       member of Mr. Darwin's family. He accordingly pre
       pared a second letter, " Proposed letter II." February
        1st, 1880. Both these letters state that Darwin had
       originally written the words, " Dr. Krause has added
       largely to his essay as it appeared in Kosmos" and that
        these words were accidentally omitted ; and the second
        letter concludes thus :
           As Mr. Butler evidently does not believe my deliberate asser
        tion that the above omission was unintentional, I must decline
        any further discussion with him.
            This letter did not meet with the approval of all
        the Darwin family, and it was decided that it should
        be submitted to Professor Huxley, to whom Darwin
        accordingly sent it with a letter dated 2nd February 1880.
        In this letter to Huxley he says :
            I should rather like to show that I had intended to state that
        Krause had enlarged his article. On the other hand a clever and
        unscrupulous man like Mr. Butler would be sure to twist whatever
        I may say against me ; and the longer the controversy lasts the
        more degrading it is to me.
             Professor Huxley's opinion was that the second letter

xvm               HUXLEY'S ADVICE                      327
should not be sent ; he thought that a note in a future 1880
edition of Erasmus Darwin would meet the case. "'44
" Proposed letter II." was accordingly rejected.         It
appears from the papers sent me by Mr. F. Darwin that
something else weighed with Charles Darwin and his
advisers besides Professor Huxley's opinion ; namely,
that Butler's letter to The Athenaeum was " so un-
gentlemanlike as not to deserve an answer," as to
which the reader has the material for forming his own
opinion.
     On receiving Huxley's reply Darwin wrote him a
letter of thanks (see Appendix).
     Mr. Francis Darwin and some of his brothers disagreed
with Huxley, and thought that their father ought to
write. It is, of course, idle to say so now, but I wish
Darwin had followed his sons' advice and neglected that of
Huxley. Butler would not have had to strain any point
to accept his statement that he had written the words, and
that they had been struck out inadvertently. He would
not, and, even if he had been, as Darwin supposed, an
" unscrupulous man," he could not have twisted it against
him ; though he might have had something to say about
his not believing Darwin's " deliberate assertion that the
omission of any statement that Dr. Krause had altered
his article before sending it for translation was un
intentional," because he found no such " deliberate
assertion " in Darwin's letter to him of 3rd January
 1880. What he found there was an assertion that to
alter an article on republication is so common a practice
that it never occurred to Darwin to mention it. He took
this to mean that Darwin had done what he did on
purpose. He would have had to know more than he was
ever told before he could have understood in what way
any such words as " unintentional " or " accidental "
could be properly applied to what had happened. We can
now see that there was inadvertence, and that it consisted
in Darwin's not noticing that he was striking out of his
preface more than he intended.
    Butler gave to the British Museum a copy of Kosmos
for February 1879 and a copy of Erasmus Darwin, so

      328                           WHIST                                   xvm
1880 marked as to show what passages not in the German had
"• 4* been interpolated into the English version.
                           Miss Savage to Butler.
          8 yan. 1880.—We are anxious to get more members [for the
      Ladies' Club], for we want money awfully. I shall take to high
      way robbery, for it seems no use to lay the matter before the
      Lord. He led me on four months ago and made me think that
      he seriously meant to dry the tears from my eyes ; but I suppose
      he thought he had caught me by the paltry advance of £5. Please
      write to me soon about this.
                           Miss Savage to Butler.
          1 Feb. 1880.— I am vexed I did not see it first [ The Athenaeum
      with Butler's letter of 31 Jan.], but on Friday evening I fell a
      victim to Mrs. Lowe's rapacity for whist and did not get a chance
      of seeing The Athenaeum at the club. It must have been my
      prophetic soul that made me wish to shirk Mrs. Lowe that night.
      I said I had to go to Mudie's, and went out with the books
      strapped up ; but I did not go far, and wandered round and round
      the block of buildings between Wells Street and Berners Street
      until somebody coming out of the club told me she was gone.
      But I had no sooner settled down to read after my tea and
      toast than she reappeared like Fate, and I felt that there was no
      resistance to be made. You may resist the Devil and (so I have
      been told) he will flee from you, but that cannot be said of Mrs.
      Lowe when she wants a fourth for whist.
                         Butler to Henry M. Paget.
                                                        15 Cl1fford's Inn, E.C.
                                                              Feb. 3, 1880.
          Dear Paget1—I should have written sooner but was uncertain
      where to find you. While I remember, you do not mention
      having been to Fiesole. It is an afternoon's walk from where
      you are and I think the old Etruscan walls will fetch you. Mind
      you go and see them. I am so very glad you took to Giotto.
      I hoped you would. You do not say how you liked the piazza
      and duomo in the upper town at Bergamo, and, of course, you
      saw the Moroni's. " The Last Supper " [Leonardo's, at Milan]
      is not worth going to see—any old wall will do just as well. No
      good pictures that I know of ever came out of Bologna. I don't
                            1 Paget was travelling in Italy.

xvm                        NOBLENESS                             329
like even Francia, not at all. Academies were first started at 1880
Bologna, and since then—well, I suppose we differ on that point. Aet. 44
I see [Thomas Cooper] Gotch now and again, and to-morrow he
and [Henry Scott] Tuice and [Joseph Benwell] Clark are to come
up to me for a little Handel. I don't know Tuke and Clark yet,
and am to make acquaintance with them. I am sure they are
nice. Jones has been very ill, but is now all right again. Quinsy,
sore throat, and rheumatism. He lives in lodgings now in New
Ormond Street, and I think it suits him. Sid [Paget's brother]
I have not seen for an age. Sienna is a place to see, if you can
manage it—but I hardly remember it, it is so many years ago
(over 30) since I was there. Cortona is fine, and Perugia, if not
 too far. I am sure your picture will be very good—and I shall
like seeing your picture in the Grosvenor.
      Ah ! I don't know what nobleness is any more than you do ;
 but I imagine that to be noble a man must be strong in body and
 position, handsome, amorous, and kind ; with a contempt for all
 the vices of meanness—and the meannesses of virtue. I have so
 much nobility about me as to be in a great rage with old Darwin.
 Enclosed letter from last Friday's Athenaeum will tell the story
 sufficiently. I suppose he will have to answer it : if he doesn't I
 shall go for him again somehow. I am writing much—clearing
 my mind preparatory to a work of the Life and Habit kind. I
 have some good things for it. Also I have been painting out of
 doors not unfrequently this winter— but I paint worse and worse.
 Still, it rests me, and I couldn't write if I didn't go out into the
 country and walk and paint. I am glad of any Italians liking
 Erewhon. Is Madame Villari Italian ? Pray say how pleased I
 am. With all best of best of wishes to Mrs. Paget and yourself.
 Yrs.,                                                  S. Butler.
       Early in March Butler's aunt, Mrs. Lloyd, died at the
 Whitehall, Shrewsbury, and Miss Butler duly informed
 her brother. Soon afterwards she wrote and told him
about the spring flowers in a letter written on what he
 used to call " her daffodil pedal." He sent a quotation
from it to Miss Savage, who replied, 17th March 1880:
      I hope you hastened to assure your sister that daffodils are
abundant in the London streets. Miss Johnson had a lot the
other day. I said, " You don't let us forget that we are in the
month of roaring daffodil." So she said, " I wonder why
Tennyson called them roaring." And everybody else wondered
too ; but nobody could suggest a reason why, and seemed quite
satisfied that the epithet was eminently Tennysonian—as in fact
it is.

        33°                            LUCY                             XVIII
  1880      [I hope that many a long year before these letters or selections
Aet. 44 from them can ever be published it will be necessary to tell the
        reader that what Tennyson really wrote, as Miss Savage very
  I „ well knew, was
                              . . . Here in this roaring moon
                         Of daffodil and crocus.
            See the Introduction to Vol. I. of The Nineteenth Century.—
        S. B., 9 Nov. 1901.]
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
                                                         New Berners Club.
            2yd March 1880— Read the subjoined poem of Wordsworth
        and let me know what you understand its meaning to be. Of
        course I have my opinion which I think of communicating to
        the Wordsworth Society. You can belong to that society for
        the small sum of 2/6 per annum. I think of joining because it is
        cheap.
            I hope you have enjoyed your holiday. I forgot to tell you
        to beware of the adders on Dartmoor. They swarm there, like
        "violets by a mossy stone, half-hidden from the eye," and pounce
        out upon unwary travellers.
                      She dwelt among the untrodden ways
                         Beside the springs of Dove ;
                      A maid whom there were none to praise,
                         And very few to love.
                      A violet by a mossy stone
                         Half-hidden from the eye !
                      Fair as a star, when only one
                         Is shining in the sky.
                      She lived unknown, and few could know
                         When Lucy ceased to be ;
                      But she is in her grave, and, oh,
                        The difference to me !
            [To the foregoing letter I replied that I concluded Miss
        Savage meant to imply that Wordsworth had murdered Lucy in
        order to escape a prosecution for breach of promise of marriage.—
        S. B.]

xv1n                        AARON                             331
                    Miss Savage to Butler.
    April 2nd 1880—I don't think you see all that I do in 1880
the poem, and I am afraid that the suggestion of a dark. Aet. 44
secret in the poet's life is not so very obvious after all. I was
hoping you would propose to devote yourself for a few months to
reading The Excursion, his letters, etc. with a view to following
up the clue, and I am disappointed ; though, to say the truth, the
idea of a crime had not flashed upon me when I wrote to you.
How well the works of great men repay attention and study !
But you, who know your Bible so well, how was it that you did
not detect the plagiarism in the last verse ? Just refer to the
account of the disappearance of Aaron (I have not a Bible at
hand —we want one sadly in the club) but I am sure that the
words are identical. [I cannot see what Miss Savage meant.—
S. B.] CasselPs Magazine have offered a prize for setting the
poem to music, and I fell to thinking how it could be treated
musically, and so came by degrees to a right comprehension of it.
     Miss Savage may merely have meant that there was
 mystery about the deaths of both Aaron and Lucy. She
 was no doubt thinking of her letter of November 1879
 in which she asked Butler what became of Aaron. What
 ever she meant her letter had the effect of directing
 Butler's attention to Wordsworth's poem ; he meditated
 on Lucy and settled that she must have been a very
 disagreeable person ; he therefore sent her to dwell in
 that pigeon-hole of his memory which since December
 1878 (ante, p. 292) had been tenanted by Moore's young
 lady whose trees and flowers faded away ; and he frequently
 alluded to the pair of them as probably the two most
 disagreeable young women in English literature, all the
 time Waiting for an opportunity to point out in public
 how much they must have had in common.
     The writing of Evolution Old and New, and the
 publication by Charles Darwin of Erasmus Darwin,
 led Butler to the writing of his next book, Unconscious
 Memory, in which he included a translation of Professor
 Ewald Hering's lecture on memory. This is an extract
 from a letter he wrote to Professor Hering asking for
 his consent to publish the translation.

        332                  THE NEXT BOOK                             xrm
                       Butler to Professor Ewald Hering.
 1880        15 April 1880—In December 1877 I published a book,
Aet.44 Life and Habit, in which the existing differentiations of habit
       and structure were referred, as in your lecture, to the accumulated
        memory of successive generations ; and I made this the key to
       the phenomena of old age, the principle underlying longevity,
       the sterility of hybrids and of certain animals under domestication,
       as well as to other observed facts of heredity ; but I had not
       heard of your lecture till I was already in the press with Life
       and Habit, and, being afraid of finding something which would
       necessitate serious alterations, I purposely avoided it.
            After I had published Life and Habit, but not before, I read
       the account of your lecture given by Professor Ray Lankester in
       Nature, July 13th, 1876. I then at once wrote to The Athenaeum
       calling attention to the extracts given by Prof. Ray Lankester,
       and also to a passage by Dr. Erasmus Darwin in which a similar
       conclusion was hinted at. . . .
                             Butler to H. M. Paget.
            20 May 1880—What a beast I am for not having written
       sooner and now I don't know where to address to—but Sid will
       tell me, and it will be an excuse for seeing him which I have not
       done for months.
            The Academy : I don't quite know what to say about this.
       Condole, of course—but I hear that Paget sent a large unfinished
       picture into which he had not put all the work that Paget could
       put into it—Humph. I don't think I need say any more after
       that. Gotch as you know was out. I did not see his picture
       at the last, nor yet Gogin's, whose rejection is a matter which I
       regret more than I can say.
            I am painting a little out of doors again, now that the
       weather will let me ; I take great pains, but it comes to
       nothing ; yet I cannot stop. I have pretty well learnt German
      now ; sufficiently for practical purposes, for I never mean to go
      there, and don't care about speaking it. My new book is, I may
      say, half done. It will give translations from two German
      writers [Hering and von Hartmann], cap Life and Habit, and
      give old Darwin the best warming that I can manage to give
      him—and I think I shall manage a pretty hot one.
           I have seen Gotch several times lately ; between you and me
      I can do nothing with him. He is nice and loveable, but he has
      a screw loose somewhere and he is beyond my art to manage \
      him. Do you know Tuke ? Jones and I are delighted with
                                                                         n  J

xv1.1                    CYCLOPEAN WALLS                                   333
him and think him almost as good as Tonio [the son of the 1880
boatman at Arona] ; and he likes Handel too, and we give him Aet. 44
a dose now and again. I think of going to Italy in July, as soon
as I have got my book well forward, so that I shall not have
much to do on my return. Erewhon has sold well lately.
I have raised the price to 5/- and it seems to sell better in
consequence—more than 100 copies have gone since Xmas, but
it is all eaten up by the expenses of Evolution Old and New,
which was badly managed. When I go, I mean going near
Turin ; there is a Monastery on the top of a mountain there
[Sammichele ; see Alps and Sanctuaries] which haunts me, and
 I must go and lay it. I hear you have been seeing some
Cyclopean walls. Cyclopean walls always fetch me ; aren't
they fine ? No. I don't like Mr. Spartali at all.1 The plain
 business American is often a capital fellow, but your Aesthetic
 American thinks to fly from the wrath to come by trying to
 imitate The Saturday Review. (This is because he called
 Erewhon " intellectual gymnastics." What nonsense ! Erewhon
 may be a stupid book, and parts of it certainly are so. The
 scheme—a journey to another world—is old and essentially a
 bad and cheap one. I wish I had done it some other way, but
 it doesn't matter, and as the tree falls so let it lie.)
      Talking of Cyclopean walls, I went to Maidstone the other
 day and saw Kit's Coty House ; it is really very good — a
 druidical monument, not a house at all. I daresay you know
 it—and Maidstone is fine, full of beautiful bits. I must try and
 do some this summer.
      After I have done my present book, I go on to the " Organic
 and Inorganic." 1 have finally made up my mind that there is
 no hard and fast line to be drawn, and that every molecule of
 matter is full of will and consciousness, and that the motion of
 the stars in space is voluntary and of design on their parts. I
 find a passage in Walt Whitman which will serve for my title-
 page ; it runs : "I do not doubt that the orbs and systems of
 orbs play their swift sports through the air on purpose." It is
 so ; and I think I can make it pretty clear, too. As for the
 Newtonian system, there is a horrible screw loose in it. I did
 not find it out, but, when I came across it, it was a very clear
 case ; and Jones and my cousin see it too, and so will you when
 I show it you ; and nothing but volition will get it straight. It
 is very nice. With all best of best wishes to Mrs. Paget and
 yourself. . . .
      My aunt is dead and I have too many and too deep envelopes
 and must use them up.
    1 He means Mr. W. J. Stillman who married Mils Spartali. Paget was travelling
 with the Stillmans in Greece when thii letter was written.

        334                  THE ITALIAN BOOK                            xv„.
 1880         I remember something about there being a screw
Aet. 44 loose in the Newtonian system, but I am sorry to say
        that I have entirely forgotten what it was ; the reason
        probably being that Butler never returned to it, and so I
        heard no more about it.
              Buder had published Evolution Old and New with
        David Bogue, and was to publish Unconscious Memory
        with him, paying the expenses himself; now, to his
        surprise, Bogue offered him j£1oo for a book of Italian
        travel, with illustrations, which ultimately grew into
        Alps and Sanctuaries. But when it was written Bogue
        declined to take it, and Butler published it in November
        1 88 1, at his own expense.
                                Miss Savage to Butler.
             22 "June 1880—I admire your coolness in trying to pass off
        the idea of your Italian book as your own. Why, I suggested it
        to you years ago ! It may be a poor thing, but it is not your
        own.
             I should have written to you much sooner, but I have had hard
        work writing poetry. Inspiration comes quickly, but the finishing
        and polishing take long. However, here are the verses. They
        are for a preface to your Italian book. I present them to you :
                  When Jones was tired of trampling on his mother,
                   (Occupation so congenial to a son),
                   " Devolve," said I, " that duty on another,
                   Or her lot will be a much too easy. one.
                   " I, too, am tired of goading Darwin into madness,
                   So we two innocents abroad will gaily go,
                   Bribed to intensify the public sadness,
                   By the writing of a volume for a hundred pounds or so."
             However, seriously, the scheme is a delightful one ; we shall
        have a delightful book, and you will have a nice little sum of
        money which your father could not possibly dream of asking
        for. He could not be so mean. [Miss Savage did not know
        him.—S. B.]
             I have been leading a very dissipated life lately, but it is the
        season, and society has its duties. I mean that it is a duty to
        profit by the chances of amendment that fall in one's way—but
        there are such a lot of people around me, all talking, that the
        little poem has exhausted my mental powers, and I had better
        leave off at once.

xv1h              FINANCIAL POSITION                           335
     Had Miss Savage taken longer in finishing and 1880
polishing her imitation of a famous chorus in The Pirates Aet. 44
of Penzance, she would, no doubt, have got nearer the
original by accusing me of "jumping on" instead of
" trampling on " my mother. But in any case I desire to
register a protest against being accused of having ever
done either.
     We two innocents abroad did gaily go, but not
together; Butler started alone in July for S. Ambrogio
and S. Pietro in the valley of Susa, and after laying the
monastery of Sammichele, as he had written to Paget,
remained in the neighbourhood of Lanzo, Viu, Fucine,
and Groscavallo till he moved to Faido, where I joined
him in August ; and we were together for a fortnight,
correcting the proofs of Unconscious Memory and making
notes and sketches for Alps and Sanctuaries.
     The reader will probably not be surprised to hear that
the arrangement between Butler and his father about the
^300 a year did not work smoothly. The difficulty was
due, I imagine, to the impossibility of any arrangement
working smoothly between such a father and such a son.
While Butler was abroad there was, partly in consequence
of the death of Mrs. Lloyd, an interchange of letters
about alterations of investment, succession duty, the true
effect of the various deeds that had been executed vary
ing the original provisions of Dr. Butler's will, and so
on. The correspondence did not tend to improve the
relations between the two. Butler was perhaps over
sensitive. He assumed that the having to pay the
allowance rankled with his father, who, he thought, took
pleasure in worrying him and writing unnecessary letters.
We need not go into it all, but I will give extracts from a
               Note on my F1nanc1al Pos1t1on
    I have already explained [in a previous note] that I would bate
nothing of this [allowance], both because it was the least I could
manage to live upon in the style which people expected of me,
and also because I could not keep myself in reasonable health for
any less sum. I was then [1880] 44 years old and could no
longer live on what I could have lived on, and very well did live

        336             WISHING PEOPLE DEAD                             xvm
 1880 on, as a young man. Every man who is not an idiot will, if he is
Aet. 44 unmarried, have expenses which, let him be as moderate as a man
        can be, will make a large hole in ^300 a year.
           . When my aunt died, some four months after the allowance to
        me began, my father came in to about the sum which he was
        allowing me, and, knowing that he was very well off before, I was
        quite easy in my mind that he would never feel what he was
        doing for me. I had always hoped that when my aunt died he
        would do something for me out of his accession of income ;
        unfortunately he had already begun to do this, so that, of course,
        my aunt's death could do nothing for me except relieve me of any
        uneasy feeling lest my father should be forgoing anything he had
        been accustomed to on my account. [1901.]
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
             11 Aug. 1880—I was not elated by any false hopes about Mr.
        Gladstone. Of course they made the most of his illness. How
        could the session ever have come to an end if he were well
        enough to attend to his parliamentary duties ?          It was the
        greatest stroke of luck his being ill, and they made the most of it.
        As for Tom Taylor, I haven't any feeling about him one way or
        the other ; but if you rejoice at his being dead I will rejoice too.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
              26 Aug. 1880—Many thanks for your letter which I was very
        glad to have. No, it wasn't your wishing so many people dead
        that made me think you had the spleen ; that shows a quite
        natural and healthy state of mind. In fact, the more people we
        wish dead, the healthier in mind and body we are likely to be.
         A little while ago I was so unenergetic that I was quite incapable
        of wishing anybody dead, even the landlord of the club ; and
         when I met him on the stairs one day I was too utterly strength-
         less to do anything but smile benignly upon him. So I was
        obliged to have recourse to tonics, and a few doses of steel have
         wonderfully restored me; and now I am hating just as well as
         ever. No, I think it was your wishing yourself back in Clifford's
         Inn that made me uneasy about you. You must have been in
         low spirits to want to be in London when your holiday was only
         half over.
              A merciful providence has interposed on your behalf and saved
         you from the long letter I was going to write you. Now I have
         barely time to catch the post, which I must catch as I am afraid if
         I don't write to-day you may not get my letter before the 30th,

xv.„                     DRURY LANE                              337
and I want you to know that I should like to hear from you 1880
again tolerably soon.                                                 Aet. 4.4
                       Miss Savage to Butler.
     12 Sept. 1880—I will come on Friday. I did not know that
Mr. Jones was an artist too. I am not well, but I daresay I shall
be all right in a day or two. I think I have been taking too
much iron, or I have a dumb cold. What is a dumb ague like ?
I think very possibly I may be suffering from that. I think
it must be a dumb malady of some kind because there are no
symptoms to lay hold of.
     I am very glad you are at home again ; when you are away I
have not a soul to speak to—I mean with perfect unreserve. I
am glad you are so well ; if you have not quite got rid of the
spleen you must go and see The World at Drury Lane. I went
last week. It is a wonderful play. The hero is a delightful man ;
who could help being charmed with a young man who, for the
sake of making the voyage with the girl he loves, starts from the
Cape of Good Hope at a moment's notice without any other
baggage than a bouquet of artificial flowers?
     But he is a man of astonishing resource, for, in the second
scene, he appears dressed in a beautiful suit of flannels which he
could not have borrowed, as the passengers and crew are all under
sized, meagre, little men, whereas the hero is a fine fellow standing
about 5 ft. 11 in. and measuring at least 45 in. round the waist.
Later on he escapes from a lunatic asylum, knocking down a
dozen or so of keepers as if they were rag dolls. The asylum
is indeed admirably planned for escaping from — the principal
entrance being about 2 ft. from the river's brink, and there is a
punt kept quite handy into which the hero springs.
     This scene is greatly applauded, and well it may be ; for I
never before saw a punt going at the rate of twenty miles an
hour, and it is a sight I am glad to have seen. In the last scene
but one the hero shows himself to be of exceeding subtlety, for
he goes to the three arch-villains, who are carousing together,
and makes them confess, having taken the precaution to bring
two shorthand-writers with him. They are hidden behind the
door, and the audience see them taking notes of all the villains
say.
     The third scene is rather an uncomfortable one—four men
on a raft in mid-ocean ; one of them dies of starvation, and sticks
out his arms and legs in a really ghastly manner. The survivors
fall to fighting and every minute we expect the portly hero to go
plump upon the dead man who will, of course, jump up with a
yell and spoil the tragedy of the scene, for the raft is only 10 ft.
      VOL. I                                                  Z

        338          "A WICKED ANACHRONISM"                          xvm
  t88o square, if that. However, they keep clear of the corpse in the
Aet. 44 most skilful manner ; it is like dancing on eggs. Do go and
        see this play ; there are ever so many more scenes, all equally
        good.
             I suppose you have not been seeing The Times, so I send you
        the narrative of Mr. Gladstone's excursion. I cannot make up
        my mind whether it is written by Mr. Gladstone himself or by
        Mrs. Gladstone's maid. Tell me what you think. I am looking
        forward to your book [ Unconscious Memory] very much. It is
        the only thing that will do me any good.
             1 shall come on Friday between four and five o'clock.
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
             2 Nov. 1880—You are indeed a wicked anachronism when
        even a poor feeble monthly is aroused and turns upon you.
        Sixteen-and-a-half pages in Temple Bar [Nov. 1880] are written
        to introduce the famous passage from a work by the "latest of
        Dr. Darwin's admirers" in which your "weakness of thought,"
        etc., is denounced—"a weakness of thought and mental ana
        chronism which no one can envy." Some people's weakness of
        thought and mental anachronisms can, no doubt, be envied, but,
        unfortunate man ! no one can envy yours. ... I am going there
        [the British Museum] this week. I want to learn some games
        of patience. I suppose I must not take a pack of cards with me ;
        the authorities might think I wanted to entice the readers into
        fambling transactions. Mrs. Lowe is one of our creditors and
           appease her with puzzles and patience. I am like the woman
        in Browning's poem who was pursued by wolves and who
        escaped by tossing out a child every now and then. I have
        tossed out all the patience I know to Mrs. Lowe, and now I
        must go to the Museum and get more. The fifteen puzzle was
        as good as two children. Farewell, you bad anachronism.
              Unconscious Memory appeared in November and was
        "inscribed to Richard Garnett, Esq. (of the British
        Museum), in grateful acknowledgement of the unwearying
        kindness with which he has so often placed at my dis
        posal his varied stores of information." The full title of
        the book is Unconscious Memory : a Comparison between
       the Theory of Dr. Ewald Hering, Professor of Physiology
       at the University of Prague, and The Philosophy of the
        Unconscious of Dr. Edward von Hartmann ; with transla
       tions from these authors and prel1minary chapters bearing on

xv.n        THE WORKING HYPOTHESIS                      339
Life and Habit, Evolution Old and New, and Mr. Charles 1880
Darwin s edition of Dr. Krauses Erasmus Darwin.             Aet. 44
     The first chapter is introductory, and deals with the
general confusion between descent with modification and
natural selection. Chapter ii. is headed : " How I came
to write Life and Habit and the circumstances of its
completion." Chapter iii. is headed : " How I came to
write Evolution Old and New.—Mr. Darwin's ' brief but
imperfect ' sketch of the opinions of the writers on evolu
tion who had preceded him.—The reception which Evolu
tion Old and New met with."
     Chapter iv. is headed : " The manner in which Mr.
Darwin met Evolution Old and New" and tells again the
story which has been told earlier in this chapter, but
only Butler's side of it because, as I have said before, he
did not know anything about Charles Darwin's reasons
for maintaining silence. The reader may perhaps ask :
Why could not Butler leave it alone ? What could it
matter to him ? How was he damnified by what had
been done ? And it may be conceded that if he had
issued a writ claiming damages and Darwin had paid into
Court one shilling, no jury would have awarded him
more. But Butler was not thinking of shillings or
pounds. He shows in chapter iv. of Unconscious
Memory that the personal damage he considered himself
to have sustained consisted in Darwin's having made it
appear that if anything condemnatory of Evolution Old
and New was to be found in Dr. Krause's translated
article, " it was an undesigned coincidence and would
show how little worthy I must be to consideration when
my opinions were refuted in advance by one who could
have no bias in regard to them." And he goes on with
a passage beginning : " By far the most important notice of
Evolution Old and New was that taken by Mr. Darwin,"
given in the Appendix. If the reader will turn to it
he will recognise that it opens with a statement of what
I have spoken of as Butler's working hypothesis which
was constructed in ignorance of there being more facts
beyond those within his knowledge ; this hypothesis he
would certainly have modified if he had known of the

       340       HERING AND VON HARTMANN                              xvm
1880 letters which Mr. Francis Darwin sent me in 19 10. In
   44 the continuation of the extract Butler uses the personal
      quarrel as an occasion for referring to Charles Darwin's
      treatment of Buffon, Erasmus Darwin, Lamarck, and the
      author of The Vestiges of Creation, in order to show that
      his indignation was aroused on behalf of these writers,
      "to all of whom," he considered, "Mr. Darwin had
      dealt the same measure which he was now dealing to
      myself."
           Chapter v. is introductory to chapter vi., which
      contains a translation of the lecture delivered by Dr.
      Ewald Hering at the University Meeting of the Imperial
     Academy of Sciences at Vienna, 30th May 1870, "On
  __ Memory as a Universal Function of Organised Matter."
      It was by design that Butler included his account of
      the dispute with Darwin and his translation of Hering's
     lecture in the same book, or if not by design ab initio, it
     was the result of an accident of which he designedly took
     advantage. Looking upon Charles Darwin's treatment
     of himself as of a piece with his treatment of his pre
     decessors, he intended the book, which showed his own
     treatment of Hering, to be an object-lesson for the world
     in general, and for Darwin and scientific men in particular,
     in the art of how to treat a predecessor, even though
     you may be under no obligation to him.
           Chapters vii., viii., and ix. are devoted to a transla
     tion of the chapter on Instinct in von Hartmann's
     Philosophy of the Unconscious, which Butler thought it
     necessary to give because he had been so often told that
     the views concerning unconscious action contained in
     Professor Hering's lecture and in Life and Habit were
     only the fallacy of von Hartmann over again ; and he
     wished to show that this was not so.
           The book concludes with the statement and refutation
     of objections, from which these two quotations are taken :
           Lastly, I may predict with some certainty that before long we
      shall find the original Darwinism of Dr. Erasmus Darwin (with
      an infusion of Professor Hering into the bargain) generally
      accepted instead of the neo-Darwinism of to-day ; and that the
      variations whose accumulation results in species will be recognised

xvm          LESLIE STEPHEN'S OPINION                          341
as due to the wants and endeavours of the living forms in which 1880
they appear, instead of being ascribed to chance, or, in other Aet. 44
words, to unknown causes, as by Mr. Charles Darwin's system.
(Pp. 280-81.)
     The battle is one of greater importance than appears at first
sight. It is a battle between teleology and non-teleology, between
the purposiveness and the non-purposiveness of the organs in
animal and vegetable bodies. (P. 287.)
     When Unconscious Memory was published, the question
arose in the Darwin family as to what was to be done with
regard to Butler's repetition of his accusation, and again
 there was disagreement. Mr. Francis Darwin and some
of his brothers wished " that a fly-sheet should be inserted
in the unsold copies of the Life of Erasmus Darwin,
stating as an erratum on p. 1, ten lines from top, that
 Krause's article in Kosmos was altered and enlarged before
 it was sent to Mr. Dallas for translation." The other
 members of the family did not agree, and Unconscious
 Memory was sent to Mr. (afterwards Sir) Leslie Stephen
 for his opinion. He advised that nothing should be done,
 and this advice was adopted.
     I do not know why Huxley and Leslie Stephen should
have advised Darwin to keep silence. But if it comes to
that, neither do I know why he should have consulted
them, nor why he should have followed their advice
instead of that of his sons. I have sometimes wondered
whether Huxley and Leslie Stephen clearly understood
Butler's point. Darwin himself professed not to under
stand it, and it is difficult to explain to others a thing one
does not oneself understand. They perhaps wished to
 avert a correspondence which might have been too worry
ing for an old man, though it is not easy to see in what
way the admission of a mistake could lead to a controversy
nor how it could possibly be " degrading." Butler, not
 knowing that Huxley or Leslie Stephen was concerned,
drew the conclusion that Darwin, in the high-handed,
overbearing manner which he associated with successful
men of science, was using his position to ignore him as a
person of no influence and of no consequence.
     He made these notes about his book and about his

        342          AN UNFORGIVEABLE OFFENCE                                           rvm
 1880 difference with Darwin ; I give the second out of its order
A<*. 44 of jjte because it is in the nature of a postscript to the
        first.
                                     Unconsc1ous Memory
             $th Nov. 1880—My book Unconscious Memory has gone round
        the press to reviewers this day. I do not know whether it will
        help me to get the Life and Habit theory ventilated, but if I do
        get a hearing it will be almost solely due to Mr. Darwin's blunder
        ing. If he had not done what he did in Erasmus Darwin, I might
        have written all my life to no purpose.
             6 Nov. 1 894—I have let this note stand exactly as I found it ;
        but, it being now 14 years and a day since I wrote it, I cannot
        help wondering whether or not Unconscious Memory was or was
        not a wise move as regards the getting a hearing for Life and
        Habit—the thing about which I was, and still am, most anxious.
        I do not know. But policy or no policy, Mr. Darwin having
        done what he did, and having made no amende when his atten
        tion was called to it in The Athenaeum, Unconscious Memory was
        inevitable. Such an attempt to ride roughshod over me by a man
        who was by way of being such a preux chevalier as Mr. Darwin
        set my back up, and I determined to place the whole story on
        more permanent record. I do not think it added much to the
        odium in which I already was ; nothing could well do this ; to
        have written Life and Habit at all was an unforgiveable offence,
        and Evolution Old and New, though it could hardly make things
        worse, assuredly did not mend them. I was in for a penny and
        might as well be in for a pound. This is what I suppose I felt,
        for it is now so long ago that I cannot say for certain how much
        of what I see now I did or did not see then. Anyhow, take it
        all round, I should do the same again if the occasion arose and,
        though I cannot see that Life and Habit has made much overt
        progress, I certainly see more and more signs of its becoming
        quietly, I might almost say, taken for granted. At any rate,
         whether Unconscious Memory has helped Life and Habit or no,
        there can be no doubt that it and my other books on evolution
        have had a large share in making Huxley execute a volte-face,
        to use his own words.1
              Oct. 1880—Miss Buckley had been to dine and sleep at Down
        and I saw her in the Museum afterwards. She said Mr. Darwin
         had no idea that the last sentence of Dr. Krause's Erasmus
         Darwin was what it was. He knew nothing of what Dr. Krause
            1 This refers to an article by Huxley in Nature for I Nov. 1894, in celebration of
        the paper's having been established 25 years. Cf. a report in The Times of 1 Dec.
         1894 of a speech by Huxley delivered at the Royal Society.

 xvm             MISS BUCKLEY AT DOWN                            343
 had written, and was not responsible for it; he was just asked 1880
 to write a preface, and that was all he had to do with the Aet. 44
 matter.
      My answer to this was : " Then why did not Mr. Darwin
 say this in his letter to me, and why did he not write to The
 Athenaeum and say so when I wrote to The Athenaeum in Jan.
 1880 ? If he had done this neither I nor anyone else would have
 believed him, but we should have been bound to say we did, and
 I should have said no more."
      Her second plea was that Mr. Darwin was at a complete loss
 to understand what my indignation was all about. " I am sure,"
said he, " that I must have done something very dreadful, for he
seems very angry, and if I only knew what it was I should be,
etc." She quoted these as his words, imitating a plaintive tone
as of an injured innocent.
     Plea 3 was the nobleness and beauty of Mr. Darwin's
character. He was not as other men are.
     Plea 4 was that it was all a piece of personal pique on my
part.
     " If," said she, " there is one thing which I detest and despise
more than another it is a merely personal dispute. You cannot
put up with anything that wounds your self-esteem."
     What she meant by this last I do not know. She gave me
the impression of wishing to go as far as she dared in the direction
of saying that I had taken some private personal offence with Mr.
Darwin of a nature quite different from that which I pretended
in public, and that it was something to do with some wound my
vanity had received. She did not say this outright, but her
manner was extremely angry ; and the impression left upon my
mind was that she was accusing me of private personal malice.
     I said: "Why, Miss Buckley, it is not a private matter, it
is a public one."
     " Who cares two straws about it ? " said she fiercely—as
though plea 5 were about to consist in the contention that Mr.
Darwin was so strong, and I so insignificant, that it did not
matter what he did.
    Then she went on to say that I had to thank Mr. Darwin
for having saved me from some very rough treatment at Dr.
Krause's hands, inasmuch as Dr. Krause had sent back his revised
article to Mr. Darwin with open attacks upon me of a very
severe character (Crawley had already told me this), and that Mr.
Darwin had interfered, and had said, " No, this is not the place
for an attack upon Mr. Butler " ; so all these passages were cut
out, and I ought to be very grateful, but unfortunately the last
paragraph was left.
    This last constitutes plea 6. How it is reconcileable with

        344            CHEATING AT PATIENCE                              xvm
  1880 plea 1 —that Mr. Darwin did not know anything about what
Aet. 44 r_)r Krause had written—I do not quite see.
             I was beginning to lose my own temper now, so I closed the
        conversation. I met her again not long afterwards and tackled
        her. She was then more reasonable, and said nothing but " H'm,
        h'm " to all I said.
             A few days later Miss Savage met her and Mr. Garnett
        flirting down Berners Street (quite innocently, but good, square
        flirting). The postman was taking letters out of a pillar box,
        and as soon as the two had passed, he put his thumb over his
        shoulder and winked at Miss Savage who told me this herself.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
             9 Nov. 1880—When am I to have my book? [Unconscious
        Memory] If I do not have it soon I shall come down upon you
        like a wolf on the fold ; and that will be a pity, for when you are
        taken unawares you rush into your coat with such unreasoning
        violence that some day, I know, you will dislocate your collar
        bone. And I am afraid 1 should be utterly useless in such an
        emergency—besides, you cannot reduce a dislocation without a
        jack towel, and possibly you do not even know what a jack towel
        is, much less possess one. . . .
             The man who cheats at patience shows a weakness of thought
        and a moral obliquity that no one can envy.
             [I suppose I had told her that when my nightly game of
         patience goes amiss, after I have got three rows well set out, I
         sometimes help a lame dog over a style by a little cheating rather
         than waste the game.— 1901. S. B.]
              The illustration facing chapter xxxix. shows Butler
         without his coat, as he always was when alone in his
         rooms.
                         Butler to the Bishop of Carlisle}
                                                               18 Nov. 1880.
              My Lord—I must thank you for your kindness in acknow
         ledging the receipt of Unconscious Memory. I ventured to send
         it because I believe that a purposive theory of evolution may help
         to bring the two main opposing currents of English thought into
         a more complete harmony than has for some time past seemed
         likely, and a rapprochement between them must be desired by
         every well-wisher of his country.
                             I Dr. Harvey Goodwin (1818-1891).

xv111 THE MAMMON OF RIGHTEOUSNESS 345
     If, for example, those who start with an all-pervading supreme 188o
intelligence can yet find nothing out of harmony with their Aet. 44
initial assumption in a theory of evolution which is attended
at each step by mind, purpose, and the exercise of the moral
qualities ; and if, again, those who, like myself, start with
tabulae rasae and, working up from the first thing they can lay
hold of, find themselves driven first to evolution, then to purposive
evolution, and, through this, to the action of a supreme, all-
pervading mind or purpose in both organic and inorganic matter ;
then, surely, we may be upon the eve of the removal of other
misunderstandings, and it is well that those who most heartily
desire such a consummation should put anything they think may
tend, however little, towards it in the way of those whom they
hope it may concern.
     I did read your article on "The Unity of Nature" about
a year ago [The Nineteenth Century, Nov. 1879], but I am no
mathematician and I remember being aware that I had not quite
caught the point. I will read it again, and the reply in Modern
 Thought, which I have not yet seen. As regards the last one
["The Philosophy of Crayfishes" in The Nineteenth Century,
Oct. 1880, also by the bishop], I have found several of my most
intimate friends just as much delighted with it as I was myself.
—I am, your Lordship's very obedient servant,
                                                       S. Butler.
      Butler sent the bishop's letter to Miss Savage and she
replied, 23rd November 1880 :
     By all means make friends of the Mammon of Righteousness,
and if you exploit that dear bishop I am sure you will do it
kindly.
      In The Note-Books of Samuel Butler (p. 59) there is
a note about a man at the Century Club falling foul of
him for his " use of the word ' memory.' There was no
such thing, he said, as ' unconscious memory '—memory
was always conscious, and so forth." Several people
fell foul of him for this, and the following letter, which,
although it belongs to 1881, had, perhaps, better come
here, will show how he dealt with them and also how
tender he was ready to be in the case of a lapse of
memory.

        346               MEMORY AND HABIT
              Butler to Walter Scott, Esq., Merton Coll: Oxford.
                                                             15 March 1881.
  1881       Dear S1r—Your letter is not a very easy one to answer, but
Aet. 45 I must endeavour to thank you for it.
             I have not yet seen the passage in Sir A. Helps's Friends in
         Council to which you call my attention, but will see it and am very
        glad to know of it. Of course, if I had known of it, I should
        have been only too glad to back myself up by quoting it.
             Instinct and not only instinct but bodily growth, which,
        after all, is only a phase of instinct, are certainly according to
        me and Professor Hering —or rather, according to Professor
        Hering and myself—due to, and manifestations of, inherited
        memory. They are habits contracted during past generations
        and done, as it were, by rote in any present one in respect of all
        that is purely instinctive. If you have seen Life and Habit,
        my earlier book on this subject, you will have seen that, in the
        very title, " Habit " is put forward as the aptest word by which
        to express the vastly preponderating number of the phenomena of
        life. Having used " Habit " in one title I could hardly use it
        again, and was thrown back on " Unconscious Memory " through
        the difficulty of finding a better title. But really I do not know
        that it is wrong. Habit is founded on memory ; the existence
        of a memory is a sine qua non for the formation of a habit.
        You, I rather gather, deny that there can be such a thing as
        " unconscious memory " ; but how, for example, if I were to
         write to you that I had never seen Sir A. Helps's remarks, to
         which you have called my attention, and then find from an old
         note-book that I certainly had done so, and had been probably
         led to the theory I put forward in Life and Habit by a recollection
         of this very passage—though not conscious of having recollected
         it ? Is not this a case which arises frequently in one shape or
         another ? and could it be described better than in the phrase
         " unconscious memory " ? Moreover I think there is such a
         thing as unconscious thought—thought, I mean, too rapid and
         too subtle for conscious analysis—and unconscious malaise.
             Did I say that memory is vibration ? I do not think' I have
        done this and if you can find me the passage I shall be very
        much obliged ; it must have been by a slip. What you say is
        quite just on this head.
             Proceeding with your letter, I find you say : " If I am not
        conscious of any memory of what went on in those times I have
        no memory of it."
             Answer as above : " If I was not conscious of remembering
        Sir A. Helps's passage I should not remember it, however clearly

xv111            UNCONSCIOUS ACTION                             347
it may be shown by forgotten note-books to have been the source 1881
from which I borrowed." I don't think that will hold.               Aet. 45
     You say : "... If so, the particles which compose my
body are not me, but simply so many ether people."
     The illustration of a body politic will, I think, help here.
The individuals individually certainly are not the state ; they
are something other than the state and, at times, may be in
antagonism to it ; but the collection of all the individual members
of the state is the state. I imagine that there is a concerted
action between the particles of our bodies not wholly incomparable
to the concert of a corporation or body politic—but I dwelt on
this more fully in Life and Habit.
     No. I certainly cannot suppose the chicken to say consciously
to itself, " I remember that I grew a horny tip and I will now
grow one again." I imagine all this to be done without any
conscious recollection whatever—still I believe it to be an act of
memory—or rather to be due to whatever memory is due to. I
believe it to be done in practice in a way analogous to that in
which our own habitual unconscious actions are performed, such
as reading and walking, the details of which absolutely escape us,
yet memory is at the foundation of them all.—Believe me, Yours
faithfully,                                            s Butler.
     On the 8th December 1880 a letter from Butler, given
in the Appendix, appeared in The St. James's Gazette in
reply to a review in that paper of Unconscious Memory.
It contains the substance of his letter to The Athenaeum
of 31st January 1880 and a resume of his position ; and
it quotes, among other passages, that passage from the
English translation of Dr. Krause's modified article which
took Miss Savage's fancy—the passage about the wish to
revive Erasmus Darwin's system showing " a weakness
of thought and a mental anachronism which no one
can envy."
     Butler sent Unconscious Memory to his old school
master, Dr. Kennedy, who was then Regius Professor of
Greek at Cambridge, and with whom he had recently
renewed his acquaintance by taking Reginald Worsley
and me to luncheon with him when we were up at
Cambridge from a Saturday to Monday in October 1880.
During luncheon I sat next one of the daughters of the
professor, and there occurred between us the conversation
about music and the " simple chord of Beethoven " which

        348               ODIOUS CREATURES                         zvm
 1881 Butler reproduced in The Way of all Flesh (chapter
Aet. 45 lxxxvi.) as having taken place between Miss Skinner
        and Ernest. Dr. Kennedy in acknowledging Unconscious
        Memory wrote Butler a letter, 2nd December 1880,
        applying to his critics the three Greek words which Dr.
        Skinner applied to Ernest's critics. " Ernest remembered-
        axXrjpol, and knew that the other words were something
        of like nature, so it was all right " (chapter lxxxvi.).
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
            4 Dec. 1880 — Apropos of odious creatures, I saw Mr.
        Gladstone last week. He came out of Lord Selborne's house
        in Portland Place. He was looking dreadfully cross and very
        yellow. He seemed undecided as to where he should cross the
        street, and he stared at me in a helpless sort of way as if he
        expected me to offer him some advice on the matter ; but, as
        there was no possibility of putting him in the way of being run
        over, I refrained from giving an opinion. The crossings about
        Portland Place are so stupidly safe.
             The stormy autumnal correspondence between Butler
        and his father gave way to a quite friendly exchange of
        letters about "The Ballad or Wednesbury Cock1ng."
        The poem used to be repeated to Canon Butler, when he
        was a child, by his nurse ; and he wondered whether the
        Bony Eye had any connection with Bonaparte.                The
        name is printed Barney Hyde in the poem as it appears
        in the Appendix to Alps and Sanctuaries. Mr. Garnett
        wanted to get hold of a translation of the poem into
        Greek hexameters of which Canon Butler had spoken as
        having been made by Dr. Kennedy, Gretton, Price, or
        some other Shrewsbury scholar ; but it seems it was not
        obtainable.

                       CHAPTER XIX
                               1881
                  ALPS AND SANCTUARIES
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
     28 Jan. 1881 —Did you see the account of the marriage of 1881
Mr. Leopold Rothschild last week ? I was particularly delighted Aet. 45
with the bridegroom's speech, which was very short ; b-ut he
managed to convey a great deal in a few words. He concluded
by saying : " I have enjoyed until now a happy life. I am sure,
Sir, (to the Prince of Wales) you will excuse my saying anything
more." ...
     I often thought of you during the bad weather, and envied
you ! How has your father borne this bitter weather ? I do not
know why I should have inflicted this long letter upon you when I
began by congratulating you on escaping a much shorter one. . . .
    The little bear in the pantomime at Covent Garden is
adorable. . . .
     Please do send me the reviews ; I should like to know what
the wretches say.
      Romanes signed a review of Unconscious Memory in
Nature (27th January 1881), and in the same issue
appeared a letter from Dr. Krause. Butler replied to
both with a letter from which this is an extract :
    Mr. Romanes says that I published Evolution Old and New
"in the hope of gaining some notoriety by deserving, and
perhaps receiving, a contemptuous refutation " from Mr. Darwin.
I will not characterise this accusation in the terms which it
merits.
      The editor of Nature at first declined to insert Butler's
letter unless he modified it so as not to make it "a
                                349

        350                  ABOVE SUSPICION                         x«
  1881 vehicle for attacking Mr. Darwin." Butler wrote to
Aet. 45 Messrs. Macmillan & Co., the publishers, threatening
        proceedings unless his letter, unaltered, "the only reply
        which will set my case adequately before the public," was
        printed ; whereupon it appeared, 3rd February. It is
        given in the Appendix, preceded by his letter to Messrs.
        Macmillan & Co., 1st February 188 1.
            Here was an accumulation of straws all tending to
        confirm Butler's suspicions. First, Dr. Krause's article,
        modified into an attack, upon him for the English market,
        and Darwin's statement that he was giving a translation
        of the original German ; secondly, Romanes's review and
        Dr. Krause's letter in Nature ; thirdly, the difficulty
        raised by the editor of Nature and Messrs. Macmillan
        & Co. before his reply was allowed to appear. He did
        not suppose that Charles Darwin was actively at the
        bottom of all this, melodramatically prompting Krause,
        Romanes, Macmillan, and the editor of Nature ; he
        supposed those persons to have done what they did on
        their own responsibility, with the double intention of
        giving offence to him and of giving pleasure to Darwin.
        I am not saying he was right—I have no means of
        forming an opinion —I am only saying what he supposed.
        He thought he had got into The Country of the
        People who are Above Suspicion. Readers of The Way
        of All Flesh will remember occasional appropriate and
        profitable fairy tales which Butler inserted in that work.
        There was another which he never actually wrote down,
        but he used to speak it ; and in his Note-Books I found
        several fragments of it which I have patched together into
        the following :
         The Country of the People who are Above Susp1c1on
            Once upon a time there was a youth whose fairy godmother
        had given him a sword ; on the blade, near the hilt, was
        damascened the word Fairplay, and this was the name of the
        weapon. She told him to keep it bright and use it well and it
        would never fail him. Being a simple, straightforward boy he
        believed her, put all his faith in his sword, and learnt how to
        sharpen it, to polish it, and to use it. When the time came for

x1x                 KING LOGOMACHY                              351
him to leave his father's roof, he girded it on and went forth to 1881
seek his fortune in the world. And it was as his fairy godmother Aet. 45
had predicted. He slew all the dragons, entered all the enchanted
castles, and restored all the bewitched princesses to their parents.
 He swam the great river that turns the mill that grinds the
winds of the world, and did it as easily as an ordinary man jumps
over a ditch. He had no idea that there was anything unusual
about him. He succeeded in all he attempted and his progress
was as the march of an ever-victorious army until he came to
The Country of the People who are Above Suspicion. And the
ruler of that land is King Logomachy the (n + 1)"1 and the name
of his queen is Aringa Rossa. No sooner had the youth crossed
the frontier than he became powerless ; for it is a property of the
climate of that country to corrode the metal of which his sword
was made, so that he could not draw it from its scabbard.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
     12 February 1 88 1 — You are treating me /'//. I want to
know about your letter to Nature. I ordered Nature for last
week, but the deceitful woman has not sent it. I am busy at the
Lady Artists, and have worries of every sort and size. I have
had to evolve the rent out of my inner consciousness, and the
club attendant has been taken ill. I should like to know about
your letter before I die, which I shall do in a few days unless the
conditions of life become more agreeable. However I shall stay
in bed all to-morrow. My only comfort is in going to bed. I
often think of Cowper (who was a true poet). He evidently
found comfort in bed. He makes Alexander Selkirk say :
                 But the sea-fowl is gone to her nest,
                    The beast is laid down in his lair ;
                 Even here is a season of rest,
                    And I to my cabin repair.
                 There's mercy in every place—
    I quoted these sweet lines to Mr. Garnett the other day, but
he didn't seem to think they were poetry. . . .
    Be sure you let me know about your letter.
     In February 1 88 1 Butler, being at Shrewsbury, wrote
to Miss Savage :
    I saw the land in which I am interested, and it is being
built all up to on the farther side from the town. It is valuable
land, and my father cannot take this from me. Altogether, my

        352               AN ACT OF JUSTICE                              x.x
  1881 ultimate prospects are not so bed ; but I should like a little more
Aet. 45 now and a little less later on, for I never can be sure of living to
        the later on. I should be much more likely to do so if I had
        the little more now.
             About this time, for reasons not connected with his
        son Samuel, Canon Butler thought it right to alter the
        limitations affecting the property. Butler, as contingent
        remainder-man, was wanted to join in a deed, and a
        correspondence took place. To his surprise the draft
        deed sent for his approval was so drawn as to give him
        all he had ever asked for ; that is to say, it resettled the
        property in such a way as to make his reversion absolute,
        instead of contingent on his surviving his father. His
        attention was not specially called to this in the letter
        sending the draft, and it might have escaped his notice,
        but Pauli and Jason Smith, who were both conveyancers
        and to whom he showed the draft, pointed it out to him.
        He asked the solicitor who sent the draft whether his
        father knew the effect of the document. The solicitor
        replied that he did, and that he (the solicitor) had
        recommended this course to Canon Butler.
             Butler said : " But what made my father, who had so
        repeatedly and peremptorily refused, suddenly turn round
        and do it without saying a syllable to myself, when I had
        asked for nothing of the kind ? "
             The solicitor replied : "I recommended it as an act of
        justice."
             Butler said nothing ; and we never knew whether
         the father had acceded to the son's wishes as compensa
         tion for having by his will tied up the greater part of
         his expectancy (see Butler's letter to his father, 10th
         November 1879, ante, p. 315), or whether (and Butler
         thought this more probable) his father had grown tired
         of having to pay the allowance, and had at last cut off the
         entail in the hope that his son, by dealing with what had
         now become an absolute reversion, would manage in some
         way for himself. Butler at once gave up the allowance,
         borrowed money at 4^ per cent on the reversion, invested
         the borrowed money in the purchase of small weekly
         property, chiefly leasehold, in the neighbourhood of

x1x                  HOUSE PROPERTY                            353
London to pay a clear 8 per cent, and in this way hoped 1881
to keep himself and Pauli going. The difficulty was not             45
likely to last for many years owing to Canon Butler's age,
and, in the meantime, some money might come in from
his books. He was always sanguine, and of his own
accord began to help Pauli again, having given him
nothing during the year and a half he had been receiving
his father's allowance.
      The scheme did not work as well as we had hoped,
and financial troubles soon began again ; but he weathered
the various storms that assailed him between this time and
the death of his father in December 1886 by borrowing
money from Jason Smith and other friends, who were all
glad to have an opportunity to help him. In December
 1 90 1 he made a long note on the situation which ends
thus :
     Nevertheless, in spite of all mistakes and mismanagement, and
in spite of all the very wearing anxieties of" the next few years,
what I did saved me from having to ask my father for another 6d.
at any subsequent time, and thus saved me from another quarrel
which would probably have ended in his disinheriting me altogether
. . . for, though he hated me before I threw up the allowance,
he hated me still worse for being again independent of him—and
yet, if I had again become dependent on him, his fury would
have known no bounds.
     Moreover the houses, almost all of which I still hold, have by
this time pretty well recouped my errors. I have, bit by bit,
freeholded the greater part of them, all of which, except two
 properties that I weeded out a few years ago as hopeless, have
 increased greatly in value. I attend to them, so does Alfred [his
clerk, who came in January 1887 on his father's death] ; so does
 my agent, who is a capable and reliable man ; but Alfred and I
go round frequently, and the interruption from my literary work
 does me more good than harm. I get few arrears and few
 empties. If I make ^20 a year bad debts out of a gross income
of /2000, it is as much as I do ; and we never press a tenant
 harshly. In fact, now that I have abundance, these houses do
very well ; but at first, when I wanted every penny I could
get, they did not do so. Nevertheless, what I did was, I
do not doubt, the saving of me ; and the present satisfactory
state of the property shows how much can be done by merely
sticking to and attending to any property that is not too bad to
 hold.
      VOL. I                                               2 A

        354              MISS SAVAGE'S WORRIES                            xu
 1 88 1       This giving up the allowance was not carried through
AeL 4S without a more than usually serious quarrel between the
        father and son, and quantities of letters passed, of which
        Butler only kept a few. Things quieted down by degrees,
        but it was an agitating summer ; and Buder, besides being
        too much occupied to go abroad, neglected to write to
        Miss Savage.
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
             28 July 1 88 1 —This comes hoping to find you alive as it
        leaves me at present. I want to know if you are well and why
        you have forgotten to write to me so long. And will you please
        tell me about the book [Alps and Sanctuaries}, and whether there
        is any more of it to be seen. Please also to say that you are very
        sorry that you have not written to me, and make some very
        sufficient excuse for not having done so. It need not be a true
        excuse, but it must be a sufficient one.
             I am rather better. I have been ill both in body and soul,
        but more especially in soul. [I fear that she was indeed this, but
        for far graver reasons than those which she proceeds to give.—
        S. B.] I have been disquieted, troubled, and cast down. I have
        had nothing but worries since I saw you. Worries of such
        diverse and opposite kinds that they present themselves to my
        mind, not as single worries, but in a mass—a sort of plum-pudding-
        stone of worries. And there is nofl1ing so bad for the soul as for
        it to be flattened day and night by the weight of a conglomerate
        of worries. There are a few that are distinctly disagreeable in
        my recollection—for instance, the frizzling off of my eyelashes
        and eyebrows as I was extinguishing a Japanese umbrella, the
        ornament of our fire-stove. Then one fine morning all the
        articles of electro-plate belonging to the club were stolen, and we
        were left without so much as a fork to eat our dinners with ; so
        we had to use our fingers, and to stir our tea with the feather
        end of our quill pens, just like our forefathers in the middle ages.
        However, these were minor troubles compared with having to go
        to the Police Station, and receiving the visit of two detectives and
        promising to prosecute if they found the thief. I now believe it
        was Lefroy who stole our spoons. [Lefroy was, I imagine, being
        searched for by the police on a charge of murder, for which he
        was eventually hanged.—S. B. 1901.] He also took Lamb's
        Essays and Carlyle's French Revolution, so you see, as Mrs. Henry
        Kingsley used to say, " even in the face of this misfortune there
        is a bright side."
             The occasion of my being in Chancery Lane on Sunday was

  x1x                LAMB AND AINGER                            355
  a luncheon at Mr. Mozley's. Mr. Mozley is a man whom I adore, 1881
  but I never flattered myself that he in the least reciprocated my Aet. 45
  feelings. However, on Sunday he helped me to three-quarters of
  a pound of ham. Don't you think I may conclude that he is
  favorably disposed towards me ?
       From the foregoing letter it is evident that Miss
I Savage and Butler had discussed Lamb and Carlyle, and
  had settled that they did not like either of them. I
  suppose Carlyle offended by his German tendencies, his
  crabbed English, and his want of sympathy with the
  " surtout point de zele " attitude.
       As for Lamb, Butler used to say he did not like him.
  He became aware, after some repetitions of this, that it
  might appear unreasonable, and sought to regularise his
  position. Circumstances provided him with what he was
  in search of. Then he took to saying :
       " No, I don't like Lamb. You see, Canon Ainger
  writes about him, and Canon Ainger goes to tea with my
  sisters."
       Ainger used to be taken to tea with Butler's sisters
  by the Rev. Henry Bather, who was vicar of Meole
  Brace, near Shrewsbury, and with whom he occasionally
 stayed. Butler and Ainger had been undergraduates at
  Cambridge at the same time. They may have met, they
  must have known one another by sight ; but they can
 never have had much, or, indeed, anything, in common.
 Butler used to say that he expected to see announced,
 among forthcoming volumes, The Expurgated JVordsworth,
 edited by the Rev. Canon Ainger ; or Footsteps to Mrs.
 Trimmer s " History of the Robins" by the Rev. Canon
Ainger.
      Miss Savage's next letter refers to Alps and Sanctuaries.
 In the MS. of chapter v. Butler had inadvertently spoken of
Sir Benjamin West, and the " Sir " had to be dropped after
 Miss Savage's criticism ; the primrose with a yellow brim
 is in chapters iii. and xii. ; the Dissertation upon Lying
 in chapter v. reproduces part of the letter signed " One
who thinks he knows a thing or two about Ethics " in
 The Examiner ; and the cherry-eating scene is at the
 opening of chapter iii.

       356                    SCHOOL PRIZES                              «x
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
             2 Aug 1 88 1—I sent back your MS. this afternoon and hope
Aet I5 it will reach you safely. It reads delightfully, and I don't think
       it can be improved in any way except by pr1nt and p1ctures. 1
       see you are not " weaned from the scorner s ways, and am afra1d
       the book is not exactly adapted for a school prize, wh1ch 1s a p1ty,
       as books adapted for school prizes make the fortunes of those who
       write them. I know of a case in point. A fr1end of Mrs.
       Gelstone's wrote a book on Palestine, Palmyra, etc., and 1t was
       profusely illustrated with bad woodcuts. Nobody, not even the
       author, ever read the book through, but the reviewers were all
        delighted with it ; it was so excellently adapted for a school pr1ze.
        Of course it was, for if nobody could read it, it must be harmless ;
        and so about twice a year the book has quite a tidy sale. Now if
        I were a true friend to you I should adv1se you to turn your
        Italian book into just such another as Mrs. Gelstone's friend's—
        but I daresay you could not if you tried, so my consc1ence may
        foe cleur
              [No schoolmaster, after Ercwhon and The Fair Haven, to
        say nothing of my other books, would have dared to give any
        book of mine as a prize. Why, even to this day, the head
         master of Shrewsbury, Moss, has never g1ven a copy of my
         Life of Dr. Butler as a prize to any of h1s pup1ls, I bel1eve
         solely because The Fair Haven is advertised at the end among
         my works. Besides the reviewers had got their knife well into
         me, and my quarrel with Darwin was as yet unforgiven and
         unforgiveable. But let this pass.—S. B. 1901.]
              You never told me you had given up your allowance. The
         last I heard was that your father was going to reduce your
          income on a gradually diminishing scale ; but why did you give
          it up ? I have no doubt you were quite right in do1ng so, but
          I am afraid you gratified your father, and I don't like him to
          be gratified at your expense. Besides I am afraid you will be
          worried with your speculations—as for rents, the only rents you
          will know anything about are the ground rents, payment of
          which will be exacted with the utmost regularity. The sort of
           man to make money out of houses (except he be a great proprietor
           like the Duke of Portland or the Duke of Westminster) 1s such
           a one as our landlord, who is a second-hand furniture dealer in a
           back street. He comes looking at our furniture in such a way
           that we know he is calculating how much it will fetch when we
           are sold up. If he sees anything chipped or scratched he looks
           quite displeased, and is always dreadfully disappointed when his
           rent is paid. The hope of better luck next time alone consoles

x1x                   CHERRY-EATING                            357
him. If you were such a man as that I should be quite pleased 1881
to hear that you had been investing in houses.                      Aet. 45
     But I must not write any more. I began with a half sheet
on purpose only to write a very little note. You must be so
busy that it is wicked of me to write long letters believing that
you will read them.
     Please don't forget not to call Benjamin West "Sir." The
minute reviewers would be sure to make a crime out of the
mistake, and pretend that it arose from your not knowing better.
Not that it would matter if it did to sensible people, but the
critics are not always such. 1 like the primrose with a yellow
brim, and the Dissertation on Lying, and the bloater illustration
is delightful, and the scenery descriptions just what they ought
to be, not elaborate but complete—a delightful contrast to the
interminable word-pictures that have been the fashion lately. I
am sure the book will be a great success.
     I like the cherry-eating scene, too, because it reminded me of
your eating cherries when first I knew you. One day when I
was going to the gallery, a very hot day I remember, I met you
on the shady side of Berners Street, eating cherries out of a
basket. Like your Italian friends, you were perfectly silent with
content, and you handed the basket to me as I was passing,
without saying a word. I pulled out a handful and went on my
way rejoicing, without saying a word either. I had not before
perceived you to be different from anyone else. I was like
Peter Bell and the primrose with the yellow brim. As I went
away to France a day or two after that, and did not see you
again for months, the recollection of you as you were eating
cherries in Berners Street abode with me and pleased me greatly,
and now it pleases me greatly to have that incident brought to
my recollection again. I shall hear from you some day soon,
n'est-ce pas ?
    [I hope no one will imagine that I could have copied the
foregoing passage without emotion far deeper and far more varied
than so trivial an incident on the face of it appears to warrant.
How I wish I could say this to Miss Savage herself!—S. B.
1901.]
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
    8 August 188 1 —Shall I come to see you next Wednesday?
I am curious to know where your houses are, as I mean to
remove the club to one of them. I am sick of paying rent four
times a year, and I shall join a Land League unless I find a
landlord easy to defraud. I don't 'believe your cousin is any

        358              MISS SAVAGE'S BONNET                              x«
  1881 more to be feared than you are. Let me know if I am not to
Aet. 45 come on Wednesday about 4.30.
             [With regard to the cherry-eating incident I should have
        added that Miss Savage and I had known each other at Heatherley's
        for some few years before she took to liking me. She never
        used to miss an opportunity of snubbing me. I remember soon
        after Erewhon came out she said to me : " And to think that I
        should have known you all these years and never found you out."—
        S. B. Nov. 27th, 1901.]
             The substance of this note has been already given
        from Butler's Note-Books ; the reader will pardon its
        occurring again. It reads here as though Butler had
        forgotten that Miss Savage read Erewhon in MS. But
        I suppose he means that she found him out before it
        was published and made the remark, afterwards.
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
                                                              Aug. 13, 1881.
             Dear Mr. Butler—You gave me the enclosed sweet little
        sketch many years ago. If it would be of any use to you now
        I don't mind lending it to you [for reproduction in Alps and
        Sanctuaries] if you will take very great care of it and return it to
        me and not give it to another, as you did that beautiful picture
        you said you burned. [I forget all about it, but if I said I had
        burned it, I probably burned it.—S. B. 1901.]
             I was so glad I went to see you on Wednesday. Coming
        home I saw a bonnet in a shop window and bought it, price
        I : o£d. This is the " consolation " mentioned in my fortune ;
        but I will not be overjoyed at it for no doubt it will " turn to
        evil," inasmuch as I expect a good hard rain will dissolve it into
        the Ewigkeit. All the same, I am pleased to have such a
        bargain and it is all thanks to you ; no doubt you exist that I
        might have that bonnet.
             I used your misquotation the other night as if it were my
        own. A clergyman was declaring that there could be no true
        faith without previous doubt ; so I said, " There lives more doubt
        in honest faith, etc." ["There lives more doubt in honest faith,
        believe me, than in half the systems of philosophy," Alps and
        Sanctuaries, chap, v.] He very gravely corrected me. I said
        I liked my version best, whereon he pondered and then agreed
        with me ; so we settled it that faith to be firm must be built on
        a sub-structure of doubt. ("Sub-structure" is my word; don't
        you think it much better than "foundation"?) I think I must

x1x                  A COURSE OF STUDY                          359
•lend him The Fair Haven. Do not forget you promised to let 1881
 me have some more of the Italian book.— Yours truly,               . Aet. 45
                                                 E. M. A. Savage.
     P.S. — I enclose some scraps of conversation at the club.
 Mrs. A., widow of an Irish clergyman, is entertaining the wife
of an Irish clergyman, who is in London for a spree to buy
 mourning, etc. She asks after a Mrs. S. The visitor replies :
" She is dead. When she was in London she contracted typhus
fever, and the remnants and relics of it so hung about her that
she died within three months. But she was so truly pious that
one could only be glad when she died." I had occasion to buy
 mourning a few weeks ago ; so I said : " Blessed are they that
mourn, for crape bonnets are the cheapest."
      Miss Savage, after writing (2nd September 188 1) that
she had been ill, and that the iron she had been taking
had given her so much strength of body and mind that
she had coerced the club landlord into whitewashing the
ceiling of the club room, continued :
     I can believe that your tenants have paid their rents, poor
wretches, but when you expect me to believe that they have paid
without a murmur you ask too much of my credulity. Of course
they murmur.
     I am sorry I am to see no more of the MS., but the pleasure
of reading the book will be all the greater. I am intending to
go seriously to the Museum for the purpose of improving my
mind. I have neglected it too long. When I have been before
it has been from interested motives for the sake of lucre. Now
I shall go there from perfectly disinterested motives. Fortunately,
my mind being a small one, the cultivation of it will not be very
hard or expensive work, just as in small farms and spade industry
very little capital is required.
    My course of study is settled, but if you or anybody else has
any advice to give me I will hear what you have to say. My
present intention is to go very late to the Museum and to read
the books my predecessor has left on the desk. Formerly I got
a great deal of very curious and interesting reading in that way,
though from having real work to do I was never able to make the
most of my advantages.
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
    4 Sep. 1 88 1 —Please excuse me for not writing sooner and
for sending no more MS. The printers are clamouring for it

         360                A SPARRING MATCH                             x1x
  1 88 1 faster than I can do it. They have already sent me all you have
Aet. 45 seen in type, and what with the illustrations I have as much on
         hand as my brains can manage ; but it is all going on quite
         nicely, and I get some plums in almost daily. . . . The illustra
         tions are going on capitally, and we are going to get Gogin to
         do a full plate etching for the frontispiece. I always like hearing
         from you, so pray don't stop writing ; but don't be too hard
         upon me (not that you are !) if I write little in answer.
              Is Miss Johnson in town ? Do arrange a meeting for me
         at her place some afternoon—and yet I don't know how I can
         manage it as I draw in the afternoon, and have promised all the
         drawings to leave my hands in a month and have still 25 to do.
               Butler and Miss Arabella Buckley continued to meet
         from time to time in the British Museum, and generally
         had a few words together. As often as not, Butler said
         things just to tease her, and sometimes he burnt his
         fingers ; here is an instance :
              I said to Miss Arabella Buckley that I was glad Dean Stanley
         was dead ; I disliked his works and also he was by way of being
         lovable—whereas when I have been sketching in the Abbey
         I have seen him going round with smaller people and behaving
         very rudely to them ; his expression was odious.
              Miss Buckley bridled up and said she was not at all glad.
              I said : " Why, I never knew such a person ! You are never
         glad when anyone dies. You were not glad when Tom Taylor
         died, nor when George Eliot died, nor when Carlyle died."
              She bridled up still more : " I was glad," she said, " when
         Lord Beaconsfield died."
              She said this because she knew how greatly I admired him.
         On the whole it was a very pretty little spar.
               This note was made in the autumn of 1881, the year
         in which Lord Beaconsfield, Carlyle, and Dean Stanley
          died. Tom Taylor and George Eliot both died in 1880.
               Here is a note of another sparring match with Miss
         Buckley in which Butler came off" rather better ; it may
         as well be given here although it belongs to 1883 :
              I came upon Miss Buckley talking to Mr. Garnett in the
          British Museum, and joined them. Miss Buckley told me I
          ought to read the Life of Lord Lawrence—he was such a grand
          man, and so on. I said I would never forgive him for having
          opposed Lord Beaconsheld's Afghanistan policy (I think he did,
          but it doesn't matter)—anyway I was not going to have him.

x1x                    A BROKEN RIB                             361
Miss Buckley would not have nay ; so I screwed up my face and 1881
said that my Aunt Sarah had known him, as though that was Aet. 45
final. I knew very well that neither she nor Mr. Garnett knew
who my Aunt Sarah was ; but it made Garnett laugh, and the
mystery of the thing staunched Miss Buckley.
     In the beginning of November, Butler and I went
with Reginald Worsley for a few days to Midhurst and
Pulborough, and afterwards to Littlehampton. I had
been living in New Ormond Street since 1879, and while
we were away my furniture and belongings were moved
from there to Barnard's Inn, where I began to live on
our return from Littlehampton. The first thing I did in
Barnard's Inn was to develop scarlet-fever, which I prob
ably caught at Midhurst or Pulborough. I was ill for
weeks, and Butler sat up with me every night when I was
at my worst ; it was particularly inconvenient for him
to spend the night in an arm-chair just then, because in
one of our recent Sunday walks he had met with a curious
accident. We always took with us something to eat in
sandwich boxes, and on this occasion he had a homoeo
pathic medicine bottle full of Worcester sauce in his
watch-pocket. In getting over a stile he slipped and
fell so that the bottle cracked one of his ribs, and it was
a long time before he was able to breathe freely.
      Miss Savage took much interest in the broken rib
and also in my illness, and gave us both good and sensible
advice. She wrote :
     The great secret of getting well is not to exert yourself. . . .
There is a beautiful poem of Trench's (I think) on the subject of
exertion. " I will lie still " is the burden of the verses, which,
though meant to have only a spiritual significance, might be
usefully applied to material life.
     So we lay as still as we could in my rooms in Barnard's
Inn, he in the arm-chair and I in bed, and heard Tom,
the watchman, going his rounds and calling the hours :
      " Past three o'clock and a stormy morning."
     When I was well I made the old man's acquaint
ance, and he told me that between midnight and six a.m.
he did not call very loud for fear of disturbing the
gentlemen.

        362          A PROGRESSIVE PUBLISHER                     x,x
  1881       I was reminded of this in 191 1 while arranging for
Aet. 4* the fourth Erewhon dinner. Mr. Fifield, the publisher
        of Butler's books, came to the second dinner and did not
        come to the third ; I pointed out to him that his absence
        was a slight, and begged him to take a more proper view
        of his responsibilities. His excuse was that he had no
        dress clothes. I said he could easily get some. He
        replied that he did not wear dress clothes, and did not
        care to go to functions where they were necessary.
            I said : " Then why not embrace the opportunity of
        protesting against the bloated capitalist by appearing
        among us in ordinary clothes ? "
            That was his difficulty. He would not feel comfort
        able unless he conformed to the customs of those about
        him. He was a progressive publisher. He resembled
        Tom in this, that he had made it his business to move
        with the times, to call the hours, to insist on the progress
        of the world ; but he was reluctant to attempt to convert
        those who preferred to be left undisturbed. I prevailed in
        the end ; he reconsidered his objection to dress clothes,
        got himself a suit, and came to all the subsequent
        dinners.
             On the 22nd November we were much cheered by
        receiving the first copy of Alps and Sanctuaries of Piedmont
        and the Canton Ticino. The Introduction concludes thus:
        " I have chosen Italy as my second country, and would
        dedicate this book to her as a thank-offering for the
        happiness she has afforded me."
             The question of the £100, and whether or no Canon
        Butler would have been mean enough to ask for it, did
        not arise, because when Bogue saw the MS. he declined to
        take the risk or pay anything, and " I had to publish it at
        my own expense—with the usual result ; I am still ^no
        to the bad with the book, and have only sold 344 copies
        in all these years.—S. B. 1901."
            Alps and Sanctuaries is not confined to any one
        journey, but contains a resume of our wanderings in
        Piedmont, Lombardy, and the Canton Ticino, except that
        Varallo and its Sacro Monte were reserved for a separate
        book—Ex Voto, 1888. Frequent quotations from Handel

x1x               "YAWNING JAWS"                         363
are introduced to illustrate places, as pictures are intro- 1881
duced to illustrate stories. Mr. R. A. Streatfeild in AeL 4i
an article, "Samuel Butler," in The Monthly Review for
September 1902, writes, "He deserves the credit due
to a pioneer for the happy audacity of his discovery,
often exemplified in his books, that scenery can be
described in terms of music." The illustrations are made
from our sketches, into which Gogin, who had never been
in Italy or in Switzerland, introduced the figures. Gogin
also made, from one of Butler's sketches, the etching
which forms the frontispiece ; and, from Butler's
instructions, the drawing of the Madonna della Neve on
the tide-page. He also made, from Butler's sketches,
the two drawings of the Terrace at the Castle of Angera.
     In 1906 I stumbled upon an interesting echo of
Erewhon in Alps and Sanctuaries. I bought for four
shillings and sixpence, at a second-hand book shop, a copy
of the second edition (1872) of Erewhon. It contains a
few notes in pencil in Butler's handwriting. I suppose it
is a copy he gave to someone for whom he made the
notes ; and the bookseller did not know whose hand
writing it was, or I should not have got it so cheap. " The
Book of the Machines " is in three chapters, and the
second of these chapters contains a passage about looking
down from a high place upon crowded thoroughfares and
being reminded by the moving people of the blood
corpuscles travelling through our veins. "No mention
shall be made of sewers . . . nor of the yawning jaws of
the railway stations, whereby the circulation is carried
directly into the heart,—which receive the venous lines
and disgorge the arterial, with an eternal pulse of people."
In the copy I bought Butler has underlined the words
"yawning jaws " and written in the margin : "See Cannon
Street and Charing Cross railway stations from the bridges
or the Embankment."
    I do not know when he made the notes, but I at once
remembered this passage in the* Introduction to Alps and
Sanctuaries : " When, again, I think of Waterloo Bridge,
and the huge, wide-opened jaws of those two Behemoths,
the Cannon Street and Charing Cross railway stations, I

        364     THE HUMBUGS OF CHRISTENDOM                            x1x
  1881 am not sure that the prospect here is not even finer than
Aet. 45 from Fleet Street. . . . How like it all is to some great
        bodily mechanism of which the people are the blood."
                              Butler to Miss Butler.
            17 Dec. 1881 —Mr. Garnett of the Museum is much pleased
        with the book [Alps and Sanctuaries], and the fathers at S.
        Michele are delighted with it. I sent them a copy, and they are
        evidently very much pleased. One man, a barrister, complained
        to me, quite seriously, that the book was written in a very
        sympathetic spirit towards the Roman Catholic Church, and said
        he hoped I was not thinking of joining. Absurd nonsense ! I
        hope, however, the Romanists in England may think what my
        barrister friend thought, for they will buy my book if they do—
        and my own impression was that they would not think it one that
        was likely to do them much good.
             There is a sentence in chapter xiii. of Alps and
        Sanctuaries, " Considerations on the Decline of Italian
        Art," which in the MS. originally ran thus :
             " As for the old masters, the better plan would be
        never even to look at one of them, and to consign
        RafFaelle, along with Socrates, Virgil, Marcus Aurelius
        Antoninus, Goethe, Beethoven, and another, to limbo, as
        the Seven Humbugs of Christendom."
             Butler struck out Socrates and Virgil and substituted
        Plato and Dante. He also struck out " Beethoven, and
        another " and substituted " and two others, neither of
        them Englishmen." He wrote in his Note-Book that he
        found it much harder to get seven good humbugs than
        seven good champions. " There are scores of men whom
        all Christendom delights in justly, but there are few
        whom it agrees after a long while in admiring un
        deservedly." He did not dare retain Beethoven. " I
        think I ought to have stuck to him. He has done some
        splendid things, so has Plato ; still, take him all round, he
        is a fraud, and he is the musician by whom all the modern
        musical frauds swear."         He tried haying Beethoven's
        name printed in very small type at the bottom of the
        page, like a note, but with no reference to connect it with
        the text, intending that the sensitive reader should

x1x           THE SEVENTH HUMBUG                       365
welcome the occurrence of it just there as a happy 1881
accident. My impression was that some copies of the eL4s
book were issued with this page. I remember the page
with the word perfecdy well, but I have recently looked
at a great many copies and cannot find it ; I think, there
fore, that he may have only tried it in some revise, and
that he cut it out before publication. He inserted the
words " neither of them Englishmen " in order to negative
the supposition that he intended a reference to Charles
Darwin.
     As for the name of the Seventh Humbug of
Christendom, he omitted it because he did not wish to
give offence to any worthy reader of the Theobald type
who might get so far in the book—at least I suppose so ;
at all events that is why I omit it here.
     A friend, to whom I read the foregoing, objected that
in the last sentence I had, in effect, disclosed the name.
If so, I apologise for having bungled the passage, and will
say no more lest I should make matters worse.

                                CHAPTER XX
                                          1882
              NEW EDITION OF EVOLUTION OLD AND NEW
 1882 By the middle of January, 1882, Butler's rib was giving
Aet. 46 less trouble, and I was sufficiently recovered to go away.
        We went first to Kingsdown, near Walmer, travelling
        from London with Lionel Smythe, the painter, who was
        on his way home to Honvault, near Boulogne. We
        found such a fog at Kingsdown that, in a day or two, we
        followed Lionel Smythe over to Boulogne where we stayed
        till nearly the end of the month. After this we went to
        Boulogne nearly every Christmas until 1901, which was
        Butler's last ; and we always saw Smythe and his family
        in their beautiful old chateau.
                               Butler to Miss Savage.
             28 Jan. 1882—It is a long time since I heard anything of
        you. I hope nursing your mother has not made you ill. I have
        been out of town with Jones, who at last got well enough to go
        and is now pretty well all right again. I came back on Monday
        last. There were sneering reviews of Alps and Sanctuaries in The
        St. James's Gazette and in The Academy, both just like the
        Athenaeum one ; these are all I know of. In the meantime the
        book does not sell, and must, I am afraid, be set down as no less a
        failure than its predecessors ; or rather worse financially, inasmuch
        as it has cost more to get up. I don't exactly see what it is that
        will bring about a reaction in my favour, but I feel pretty sure it
        will come some day. The review in The Academy is by Douglas
        Freshfield ; and considering that he is rich, and has written a
        book about Italian Valleys himself, I think he might have held
        his tongue. I daresay I shall find a little something for him
        some day.
                                          366


            -
              '
           Butler to M
uc. I daresa)



xx           MISS ELIZABETH THOMPSON                            367
                       Butkr to Miss Savage.
     31 Jan. 1882—Please come on Saturday, for I gather from 1882
the earlier part of your letter that the " next " week is a slip for Aet. 46
« this."
     I have had a very good notice—short but most friendly—in
 CasselPs Magazine of Art, and I hear that Colonel Butler (Mr.
and Miss Thompson) is reviewing me for the Roman Catholic
 Register. I think we know what we shall get from him, some
thing in the sneering, patronising line. The Tablet is also, I
believe, going to review me. Bogue says his traveller cannot get
on with it [Alps and Sanctuaries] at all, nor with any of my
 books. I suspect I am about at my lowest ebb now. The
 Darwin literary and scientific clique have done their utmost ;
they have no more cards to play ; all that they can say or do is
now done, and I think a gradual reaction may be hoped for with
some confidence.
     I am sure you have had awful times with your mother.
 Melchisedec, who, as Jones says, was a born orphan, was the only
 really happy man ; he was, you may remember, without father,
 without mother, and without descent. I am very fairly well, but
 Jones's illness took it out of me a good deal.
      A passage in the foregoing letter requires elucidation.
  Butler had been told, probably by the Rosminian fathers,
 that Major-General Sir William Francis Butler, K.C.B.,
 was to write a review of his book for the Roman Catholic
  Weekly Register. His words " Colonel Butler (Mr. and
 Miss Thompson) " must be taken to be words of identifi
 cation and not of accurate description. He puts it like
 this to impress upon Miss Savage that the Butler he is
 speaking of is the soldier who married Miss Elizabeth
 Thompson, the painter of " The Roll-Call " and other
 well-known pictures. " Mr. and Miss Thompson " stand
 for " Miss Thompson and her husband," and very likely
 he is referring to something that had passed between him
 self and Miss Savage verbally, for Lady Butler was being
 much talked of at this time. Her fame as a painter had
 penetrated even to Wilderhopc, where I remember seeing
 in the hall a framed reproduction of a sketch by her
 of an Indian soldier, entitled "Missed" (if I remember
  right), which had appeared in one of the illustrated
  papers. By this means Mrs. Bridges provided herself

        368              CROSSES AND CROSSING                              xx
  1882 with a peg whereon to hang a few apt words, addressed to
Aet. 46 parting friends, showing them how intelligently she kept
        pace with the artistic movement of the time. Neverthe
        less, Theobald, it will be remembered, felt pretty certain
        that the atmosphere of Bohemia would exercise a deterior
        ating influence on the morals of his son. The two atti
        tudes are not really incompatible, for Lady Butler- had
        received the approval of Royalty, and was an established
        success. I think Mrs. Bridges must have heard of, and
        perhaps met, her at Ventnor, where the Thompsons lived
        for some time, and where Mrs. Bridges also lived before
        she joined her father and sister at Shrewsbury. Miss
        Savage probably knew these details and was to understand
        that Canon Butler would feel uncomfortable at seeing his
        son noticed at all by anyone of sufficient celebrity to have
        been heard of at Wilderhope.
             Besides the review in The Weekly Register there was
        one in The Tablet which I hope, for the sake of General
        Butler's reputation, was not also written by him. It
        amused us by saying that Alps and Sanctuaries was " a
        book that Wordsworth would have gloated over with
        delight." This raised in our minds an image of Words
       worth gloating over the passage about the primrose with
       the yellow brim. Mr. Streatfeild calls attention to this in
       his Introduction to the 191 3 edition of the book and
       proceeds :
            On the other hand the compliment paid to his little discourse
       on the " wondrous efficacy of crosses and crossing," which the
        pious Tablet read in a devotional rather than a biological sense, and
        characterised as " so very suggestive and moral that it might form
        part of a sermon," must have pleased him almost as much as
        the Rock's naif acceptance of The Fair Haven as a defence of
        Protestant orthodoxy.
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
            7 Feb. 1882—How did you get home last Saturday? I did
        not know what a fog it was or I should have come with you. I
        hope nothing serious happened. If anything did happen I shall
        say it was a judgement upon you, sent because you were trying to
        curry favour with God by praising his days when no one knew

xx                      A THICK FOG                           369
better than he that he ought to be ashamed of them. You 1882
remember you stuck out to me that it was a very fine day when I Aet. 46
told you it was nothing of the kind. I don't want to be flattered,
but, on the other hand, I can brook no contradiction.
    But seriously, I shall be very glad to hear that you got home
without mishap. Something went up against a good piece of the
granite coping of Waterloo Bridge, and knocked it clean over
into the river. I saw the gap next morning, so the fog must
have been pretty thick there.
    I don't think you were very well on Saturday, and I don't
think I asked after you enough. I hope you are better.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
    8 Feb. 1882—Thanks for your kind enquiries. You will
be glad to hear that I did no damage to anybody or anything on
my way home last Saturday. It was not, as you seem to imply,
I who knocked that great piece out of Waterloo Bridge. In fact
there was no fog at all where I went on that day, so that whatever
I did by way of propitiation was successful.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
    24 Feb. 1882—I send some reviews, three good ones and a
notice of me generally in the Saturday, which I think shows
that I am beginning to be taken more at my own estimate of
myself! ... I don't know anything about Mr. Shorthouse
[John Inglesant], except that Mudie has 1,000 copies of his book
in circulation. I don't think you need be afraid of my becoming
more unbearable than I am. . . .
    My Roman Catholic friends [the Rosminians in Ely Place.—
S. B.] and I are flirting hard. I remember you once advised me
to make friends of the Mammon of Righteousness, so you see I
am doing it ; but how they can have made that mistake about
the crossing beats me. [I forget all about this.—S. B.] The
review in the Register is by Colonel Butler. I think I told you.
                       Butler to his Father.
    4 March 1882. ... I have been reading John Inglesant, and
do not like it. I read it because The Saturday Review a week or
two ago bracketed my name with that of the author of John
Inglesant, and I wanted to see what sort of company I was in.
It was nothing to be proud of.
     vol. 1                                               2 B

        370        DEATH OF CHARLES DARWIN                               *x
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
                                           48 Great Marlborough Street.
 1882       23 March 1882—No trace of the umbrella here. I am sorry
Aet. 46 for you, but I daresay you will get it back. My umbrellas always
        come back persistently. I have never been able to lose one ; and
        when one, by reason of its infirmities, has become unbearable, I
        have to cast it loose upon Society at dead of night, or pitch it
        into the river. There is one of my umbrellas floating to this
        day in the Bay of Biscay. I set it floating down the Vilaine in
        the year 1867. It was seen only the year before last.
             Butler was at this time busy with a new edition of
        Evolution Old and New, to which he added an Appendix
        consisting of two chapters : the first " Reviews of Evolu
        tion Old and New" and the second " Rome and Pantheism."
        The book was just ready when, on the 19th April,
        Charles Darwin died. Buder thereupon wrote this pre
        face, dated 21st April 1882 ; as it is given here I do
        not repeat it in the Appendix, though to make the
        Appendix complete it should also be given there.
            Since the proof sheets of the Appendix to this book left my
        hands, finally corrected, and too late for me to be able to re-cast
        the first of the two chapters that compose it, I hear, with the
        most profound regret, of the death of Mr. Charles Darwin.
            It being still possible for me to refer to this event in a
        preface, I hasten to say how much it grates upon me to appear to
        renew my attack upon Mr. Darwin under present circumstances.
            I have insisted in each of my three books on evolution upon
        the immensity of the service which Mr. Darwin rendered to that
        transcendently important theory. In Life and Habit I said :
        "To the end of time, if the question be asked, 'Who taught
        people to believe in evolution ? ' the answer must be that it was
        Mr. Darwin." This is true ; and it is hard to see what palm of
        higher praise can be awarded to any philosopher.
            I have always admitted myself to be under the deepest obli
        gations to Mr. Darwin's works ; and it was with the greatest
        reluctance, not to say repugnance, that I became one of his
        opponents. I have partaken of his hospitality, and have had too
        much experience of the charming simplicity of his manner not to
        be among the readiest to at once admire and envy it. It is
        unfortunately true that I believe Mr. Darwin to have behaved
        badly to me ; this is too notorious to be denied ; but at the same
        time I cannot be blind to the fact that no man can be judge in

xx                BUTLER'S FOREHEAD                          371
his own case, and that, after all, Mr. Darwin may have been 1882
right and I wrong.                                                Aet. 46
    At the present moment, let me impress this latter alternative
upon my mind as far as possible, and dwell only upon that side of
Mr. Darwin's work and character about which there is no differ
ence of opinion among either his admirers or his opponents.
     Butler ought, perhaps, to have sent a copy of this
book to Francis Darwin. He did not do so, I suppose
because he shrank from intruding upon him with his own
affairs at such a moment ; and no doubt he also trusted
to its coming to his notice in the ordinary course. But
Francis Darwin did not see the book, and knew nothing
about this preface till I read it to him in his house at
Cambridge in November 1910.
      In the first chapter of his Appendix Butler dealt with
some of the more hostile reviews. Grant Allen, for
instance, had declared in The Examiner, 17th May 1879,
that Butler was a man of genius " with the unmistakeable
signet mark upon his forehead " ; upon which Butler com
mented thus :
     I have been subjected to a good deal of obloquy and mis
representation at one time or another, but this passage by Mr.
Allen is the only one I have seen that has made me seriously
uneasy about the prospects of my literary reputation.
      Before Evolution Old and New appeared, Huxley
had written in the Encyclopaedia Britannica (1878) that
Buffbn " contributed nothing to the general doctrine of
evolution " and that Erasmus Darwin could " hardly be
said to have made any real advance on his predecessors."
Butler had shown in the body of his book that Haeckel
knew little of Erasmus Darwin and less, apparently, of
BufFon. Professor Tyndall in 1878 had spoken of
evolution as " Darwin's theory," and Mr. Grant Allen
had said that evolutionism is an almost exclusively
English impulse. After the appearance of Evolution Old
and New, Butler
observed several of the so-called men of science—among them
 Professor Huxley and Mr. Romanes—airing Buffon, but I never
 observed any of them do this till within the last three years.

         372            SCIENCE AND THEOLOGY                              «
  1882 I maintain that " men of science " were, and still are, very ignorant
Aet. 46 concerning the history of evolution.
              The chapter proceeds with an allusion to what I have
         called Butler's " working hypothesis," which he would
         have altered if he had had more facts to go upon :
              The way in which Mr. Charles Darwin met Evolution Old
         and New has been so fully dealt with in my book Unconscious
         Memory; in The Athenaeum, January 31, 1880 ; the St. James's
         Gazette, Dec. 8, 1880 ; and Nature, Feb. 3, 1881, that I need
         not return to it here, more especially as Mr. Darwin has, by
         his silence, admitted that he has no defence to make.
              In chapter ii. of his Appendix, " Rome and Pan
        theism," Butler writes : " If the Church of Rome would
        only develop some doctrine or, I know not how, provide
        some means by which men like myself, who cannot pre
        tend to believe in the miraculous element of Christianity,
        could yet join her as a conservative stronghold, I for
        one should do so."            The man of science, as Butler
        wrote to the Bishop of Carlisle (ante, p. 345), begins
        with tabulae rasae, gropes his way to evolution, thence
        to purposive evolution, thence to the omnipresence of
        mind and design in the universe.               What is this but
        God ? The theologian begins with God and is driven
        to evolution. u Par divers moyens on arrive a pareille
        fin."      Butler had called his articles "God the Known
        and God the Unknown," an " Eirenicon," because he
        wished to emphasise this idea of a rapprochement between
        Science and the Church, an idea which his intercourse
        with the Rosminian fathers had fostered.
              Miss Savage read the two chapters of Butler's
        Appendix before the book appeared, and this is what she
       thought of them :
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
             18 April 1882—Thank you for sending me the Appendix
        [i.e. to Evolution Old and New.—S. B.] which I enclose. I ought
       to have returned it before, but I stupidly left it at home yesterday
       morning, and I could not go out to post it last night, nor catch
       a friendly policeman as I sometimes do.
             I like both chapters. I rather think the first is unnecessary

 xx                    JOHN INGLESANT                      '      373
 from a dramatic point of view, but as it pleases you—and me 1882
 [I must look and see what it was, I have no recollection of it. Aet. 46
 —S. B. Dec. nth, 1901] and hurts your reviewers I am glad
 it is to be published. As for the second—talk of olive branches,
 why it is a whole grove of trees. The Rod and The Literary
  World will be sure to denounce you as a Jesuit. In fact many
 people will think you are trying to entrap the unwary into
 friendliness with Rome as it is, by dazzling them with visions
 of Rome as it will be in a future too remote to hamper your
 prophecies.
      My only objection to this chapter is that you might have
 expanded your ideas into a book. Most religions accommodate
 themselves to circumstances, do they not ? Christianity seems
 to have accommodated itself by making piratical cruises into
 other religions.
      I send you a little present ; the leaves tear out, so that when
 you leave your note-book at the "Food of Health" [I don't
 remember ever going to the " Food of Health." I do not know
 the place.—S. B.] or elsewhere, as you sometimes have done, you
 will not lose so much ; and then you can put the torn leaves into
one of the little drawers in your cabinet, which is just made for
such documents. I had two little books for you, and meant to
give them to you when you came to see me ; but on Friday they
slipped my memory, and now I have only one for you. But you
shall have another some day.
                       Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
     8 June 1882—Did you read (you say you have been reading
lately) John Inglesant ? I have done it and am free to confess
that 1 seldom was more displeased with any book. I think it
deserves to be classed with Wilhelm Afeister, Undine, Sintram,
Sartor Resartus and a few others that I cannot call to mind at
this moment.
                         Butler to his Father.
     23 June 1882—I am still uncertain whether I shall get away
this summer or no. I cannot tell till I have balanced my accounts
from January 1 to July 1. I hope, however, that I shall be able
to manage it. I had no outing last year and shall be none the
worse for a change.
     I had a curious invitation a few days ago—to dine with
the English representatives of one of the Italian Sanctuaries
described in my last book. They were very much pleased with
my description of their house, and asked me to dinner by way of

        374          THE ROSMINIAN FATHERS                            xx
  1882 doing the civil thing. I dined in the refectory with the fathers,
Aet. 46 there being only two laymen besides myself and only one of these
        a Protestant. They gave me a very good dinner, and were
        agreeable, not to say charming, people ; but I was' rather glad
        when it was time to go away.
             This Italian Sanctuary was Sammichele, near Turin,
        and the English representatives were the Rosminian
        fathers in Ely Place, Holborn, who have been alluded
        to more than once. Butler often went to see them. He
        thought they agreed with the barrister, mentioned in his
        letter to his sister at the end of the preceding chapter,
        who found that Alps and Sanctuaries was written in a
         spirit sympathetic to the Church of Rome. If they
         really thought so they were less cautious than those
         readers who complain that they never can tell whether
         Butler is serious or jesting. He even suspected the
         fathers of having some idea that he might be induced to
         write on their side. One of them in a conversation in
         Ely Place had been trying to show that the distinction
         between men and animals was not arbitrary, but founded
         on something essential, immutable, etc.
              " Thus the Bible says that the soul of a man goeth
          upward and the spirit of a beast goeth downward."
              " No," said Butler, " let us have the whole passage."
              So the father turned to the Vulgate (Ecclesiastes, iii.
          21) and found : "Quis novit si spiritus filiorum Adam
         ascendat sursum, et si spiritus jumentorum descendat
         deorsum ? " (Who can say that the soul of a man goeth
         upward and the spirit of a beast downward ?)
              Our English version is wrong : it has, " Who knoweth the
         spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast that
         goeth downward to the earth ? " The context shows that the
          Vulgate is right in rendering the question as one involving
         scepticism concerning our knowledge on these points. The
         father was much scandalised. He said he did not think he had
         ever read the passage before. And I do not think he had.
              There is however the alternative that he knew all
          about it as well as Butler, but had picked up from Alps
         and Sanctuaries the dangerous habit of quoting from
         memory.

xx             SAMMICHELE AND FENIS                           375
     Butler went abroad in August to S. Pietro in the 1882
valley of Susa, near Turin, where he stayed for some Aet. 46
time sketching in the Sanctuary of Sammichele. In the
train with him from Paris to Turin were two English
officers, on their way to Alexandria, and he wrote to
me (6th August 1882) :
     If we send many such, Arabi had better look out. ... I
think the officers thought I was rather dirty all round, but they
soon got used to it, and the nicer-looking of the two borrowed
my dirty old knapsack for a pillow, seeing I did not want it, and
took to it quite kindly. My bag was very shabby, as you know,
and I was in my second-best clothes, but they did not care.
When they took off their boots, their stockings were lovely ;
and all their clothes were like mine the day after I have had new
ones, supposing I had got everything new all at once. I said I
was going painting, and they suggested I should come on to
Alexandria. I believe I might have gone with them if I had
had a mind, but I hadn't. Perhaps they were not officers at all
but card-playing sharpers ; perhaps they thought I had money —
but they can hardly have thought that. However, they were
very nice. I called on the rector of the Sanctuary this morning ;
he was dirty if you like— I did not care for him.
      I joined him in September at Aosta and we went up
and down the valley, sketching the castles ; he was
specially pleased with the Castle of Fdnis, " which," he
wrote to Miss Butler (30th August 1882),
I think beats all I have ever seen : full of XVth century
frescoes, and the frescoes, as usual, all written over from 1560
onwards to the present day. There are two sets of walls round
it ; and when I got inside and went upstairs to a huge wooden
gallery which runs round the court, I found the only tenant an
old woman spinning at a spinning-wheel. I have accumulated
a large stock of notes, and I see very well it will end in another
Italian book. Jones is with me, and we have decided to go to
Milan to-morrow.
     The Castle of Fenis was reproduced, rather smaller
than its actual size, in one of the Exhibitions at Turin.
Butler talked of making the old woman spinning in her
ruin the subject of a picture of Fortune and Her Wheel
which never got painted, just as the second Italian
book never got written ; much of the material collected

      376               THE VERONA FLOODS                             xx
 1882 for the book is given in The Note-books of Samuel Butler
A«.46(I9I2).
            We went to Milan and afterwards to Arona, Varese,
      and Bergamo. The weather was very sultry and threat
      ening and continually got worse and worse. I had to
      return, and Butler went on alone to Verona and was there
      in September during the great floods.              He made the
      acquaintance of an English lady, Mrs. Augustus Danvers,
      and her son who were flood-bound in the hotel. The
      water had entered the house and put out the gas. They
      dined by the light of a candle stuck into a bottle, the
      provisions being brought over the roofs, because the
      streets were full of rushing water which no one could
      navigate. The authorities telegraphed to Venice, and
      gondolas were sent with experienced men. Then the
      water broke the railway so that, though they could have
      got to the station, they had to wait till the line was
      mended. All this interested Butler immensely, and
      reminded him of the Rangitata, the Rakaia, the Ashburton,
      and his other New Zealand rivers.
                              Butler to his Father.
            29 September, 1882—I returned on Tuesday evening last, none
      the worse for my adventures at Verona. The floods, however,
      were very bad. I was on the Ponte Nuovo—an old bridge of
      more than two hundred years and very solid—about an hour
      before it went ; the water was nearly up to the top of the middle
      arch, but I could feel no tremor. There was a stream of water
      on either side, just passable on a cart which took people on to the
      bridge to see the river from the town side, but quite impassable
      on the station side. Almost immediately after I came off, the
      soldiers forbade any more people to go on, and, soon after that,
      some debris of a floating water-mill came down against it and it
      was gone. Two more bridges went, but I could not make out
      which they were, except that one was an iron one. In getting
      to the station from the hotel, we had to cross a stream at right
      angles—some 8 ft. deep and furiously rapid. One man had been
      knocked out of a boat crossing it about an hour before we did,
      and was only saved by clinging to the gratings in front of the
      windows of our hotel. We pulled him up with a rope to the
       first floor windows. Then we crossed and for the first time saw

xx               THE CAMERA LUCIDA                              377
how dangerous the thing was. Shortly after we had crossed, 1882
another boat did so, and six people got knocked out of the boat Aet. 46
by the rope that was stretched to help us to cross by ; but they,
too, caught the gratings of the windows on either side of the
narrow street and were saved. Then we had not long crossed
the bridge over the moat which goes round the fortifications
when it, too, was pronounced dangerous (whether it has gone or
not, I do not know), and a few minutes afterwards I saw a large
barrack-room kind of place, which jutted out from the fortifica
tions into the moat, collapse, and the chairs and tables go floating
down the stream which ran round the walls. Then the torrent
(an overflow from the river) began to eat the bank, and it was
astonishing at what a rate it ate it ; each minute big pieces of
earth crumbled down into the water.
    On the Saturday night I went on to the tower of the hotel
and saw one house which looked as if it had had its front
demolished, but I could not be sure ; next morning there were
several gaping houses alongside of it, the fronts from all of which
had gone. I disbelieve the reports of the greatness of floods
as a general rule, but I think this really was about the worst on
record ; for the number of bridges it took down stamps it as
a good deal more than was calculated upon, and it was a full foot
and a half higher than in 1868— the level of which I had seen
marked on a wall but a few hours before this one came down.
The reports about the Canton [Ticino] are very much ex
aggerated ; there has been no flood there worth speaking of;
it was from Bergamo to Venice that the rain fell. At Modena,
where I went on my way home to avoid broken bridges, there
had been hardly any rain and no flood, nor yet at Parma.
                     Butler to Miss Savage.
     9 October 1882—I am back and have been so for a week,
very much better for my trip. I was nearly drowned out at
Verona during the inundations, but have had no other mishaps.
When will you come and see me ? I am not going to write for
some time ; I have got a painting fit on. I have got a new toy
called a camera lucida which does all the drawing for me, and am
so pleased with it that I am wanting to use it continually. I
hope you are pretty well. Come any afternoon except Friday or
Monday next.
    [What a lot of time I wasted over that camera lucida to
be sure !
    I ought to have been ashamed to send Miss Savage such an
off-hand note after never writing to her all the time I was abroad.
I am ashamed enough of it now.—S. B. Dec. 14th 1901.]

        378                           MUSSELS                              %x
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
  1882       11 Oct. 1882 —I will come and see you on Thursday and I
Aet. 46 hope you will be prepared with elaborate excuses for never having
        written to me while you were away. I may not believe them, still
        they should be made. Has a camera lucida anything to do with
        luc1dity ?
                                  Lucidity, lucidity,
                                  We seek it with avidity.
            If it has you need not mention it to me again.
             I am staying at my uncle's for a few days, but leave this day.
        (You see I abstain from lucidity in my statements.)
             I hope your dear cat is well. Tybalt, prince of cats, daily
        gives fresh proofs of intelligence that are truly amazing.
             I have been so full of misery 'twere very much better not to
        be ; and when I was nearly poisoned the other day, nothing but
        dread of the vulgar-sounding verdict which the low-minded jury
        would not have failed to give, " Died from eating mussels,"
        prevented my succumbing.           I know many persons whom I
        should like to feed on mussels, but alas ! mussels are like the Lord,
        they have mercy on whom they will have mercy and                What
        is the rest of the text ?
             [The only excuse I can make to myself for neglecting Miss
        Savage so long is that she very well knew she had only got to whip
        me up with a scrap of any kind when she thought I had been too
        long without writing ; and also that if I answered her letters at
        once I should be written to again immediately ; and these years
        from 1 88 1 till the death of my father (Dec. 1886) were the most
        harassing and arduous of my whole life. I cannot unfold the tale
        here, but I was in a very bad way as regards Pauli, my houses, the
        failure of my books, and my relations with my people. I often
        wonder how I got through it as well as I did. However, I had
        not the faintest idea that Miss Savage was stricken with mortal
        disease, as by this time she certainly was. —S. B. Dec. 14th
         1901.]
              Butler bought the camera lucida in Paris on his way
        home and used it for a great many sketches ; I also used
        it for the outline of the oil sketch reproduced at the
        opening of this chapter. I have included this illustration,
        showing the view from Butler's window, partly because
        much of the building shown in it has since been pulled
        down, so that it has acquired an historic interest.
              Miss Savage seems to have changed her cats pretty

xx                       CHESTNUTS                           379
frequently. About this time she had one whose name 1882
was Clara, and the reader will probably remember that in et. 47
March 1873 (ante, p. 176) she had one which I suppose
Butler gave her and which she christened Purdoe, after
the name Butler first gave to the pseudonymous author of
The Fair Haven.
     On Saturday the 2nd December at the Working
Men's College, then in New Ormond Street, Butler
gave a lecture " On Memory as a Key to the Phenomena
of Heredity."
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
     5th December 1882—Do write and tell me how your lecture
went off. I was not there to hear it, but that was my misfortune
and not my fault. I was on my way, and had got as far as half
way down the club stairs, when Providence placed a chestnut
 under my feet, which cut short my career by causing me to take a
somersault down the stairs.
     The consequences of this performance were not serious, but
 they were unpleasant in the extreme ; and it was an hour before
 it would have been wise for me to venture into the streets, and
 I had a splitting headache. So Providence got the better of me
 that time. That the occurrence was miraculous there is no
 manner of doubt, else why did not the chestnut squash, as a
 natural chestnut would have done ? I afterwards ate it and it did
 me no harm, so I suppose, its mission being accomplished, it
 resumed its natural condition.
      On the following Saturday, 9th December, Dean
 Bradley was to have delivered a lecture on the Book of
 Job. He disappointed the committee at the last moment,
 and Butler was asked to take his place with anything he
 could think of. As the lecture of 2nd December had
 not exhausted the subject he made this second lecture a
 continuation. No chestnut prevented Miss Savage from
 being present this time.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
     10 December 1882—I was so seated that I could see a great
many faces without appearing to see them, and they all looked
appreciative. They certainly enjoyed your jokes, and that is the
best sign that a lecturer has placed himself en Fapport with the

         380              BUTLER'S LECTURES                            xx
  1882 audience. How glad they must have been that they escaped
Aet. 47 Bradley and the Book of Job ! I hope you like lecturing, because
         then you will do it again, and I am convinced that you would
        soon be one of the most popular lecturers if you chose. When
        you lecture again be sure to let me know.
            In reply to the above Butler must have written a
        letter, which I do not find, asking Miss Savage to come to
        tea and saying that he had not intended her to come to
        his lecture, or something of that kind.
                            Miss Savage to Butler.
            14 Dec. 1882—I have much pleasure in accepting your kind
       invitation for Saturday, as I shall then have an opportunity of
       speaking my mind more freely than I can on paper. So you
        wanted to cheat me ! You would not have reminded me of the
        lecture, though you knew I wouldn't have missed it if I could
        have helped it ! How can you be so wicked ? I shall, begin to
       range myself on your sisters' side. I am sure you have been a trial
       to them if you treat me so badly who have never done you any
       harm. However, no more now. On Saturday I will speak
       my mind.
             Butler gave several lectures at the Working Men's
       College and elsewhere, of which I have failed to obtain
       particulars ; but, as all that he said is sure to have been
       put into one or other of his books, the omission is not of
       much consequence.
             Soon after Miss Savage's death (in 1885) Miss
       Johnson lent Butler the only letter from Miss Savage
       which she then had ; it was written about 1882. This is
       an extract from it, followed by an extract from Butler's
       note on the copy he made of it :
            I see Mrs. Greatbach sometimes ; she came to tea at the
       Somerville Club last night, and I lent her a little book to read
        which I was on the point of sending to you ; but she has
       promised to send it on to you. Perhaps you have read it, but, if
       you have not, you will be much obliged to me for sending it. I
        have lent it to many persons, and I know exactly where they
        have got to when I hear them blowing their nose. It is a child's
        book, but so pretty—too pretty for a child.
            [The book referred to in the above letter was Jackanapes, by

xx                      JACKANAPES                              381
Airs. Ewing—I think her name is. Miss Savage made me read 1882
it and wanted me to be touched by it, but I would not. 1 dis- Aet. 47
liked it extremely. Miss Savage knew nothing about men ; and
Mrs. Ewing, who drew the conventional lady's hero, was able to
take her in. She was like everyone else ; generally she would
see through a book in a moment, but every now and then she
was caught napping.
    As for Miss Johnson, she was a dear, good, silly little
chirrupy lady-artist, with a spinal complaint that gave her at
times excruc1ating pain, and, in the end, killed her, a year or two,
or it might be rather more, after Miss Savage's death. She was
very poor, very cheerful, very avid of flattery concerning her
painting, which was hopelessly third-rate. I used to have to go
to see her pictures, and would say as many pretty things about
them as I could ; but I never would say the thing she wanted
me to say—I mean that her this year's pictures were much better
than her last. However, I must have gone very near to this, for
when I went away she always used to say, " I am so glad you
think I am improved."—S. B. 1901.]

                               CHAPTER XXI
                                        1883
                                WRITING MUSIC
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
 1883       23 fan. 1883—I see Gladstone says he owes all the fine
Aet. 47 qualities of his mind to the study of Dante. I believe I owe
        whatever I have to the fact that no earthly power has induced, or
        ever could induce me to read him. I have not yet begun even
        to feel the want of Dante.
                    Blake, Dante, V1rg1l, and Tennyson.
            Talking it over, we agreed that Blake was no good because
        he learnt Italian at over 60 in order to read Dante, and we knew
        Dante was no good because he was so fond of Virgil, and Virgil
        was no good because Tennyson ran him, and as for Tennyson—
        well, Tennyson goes without saying. {The Note-Books of Samuel
        Butler, 1 91 2.)
             The note, which was written in 1880, explains why he
        had not begun even to feel the want of Dante. This
        objection to Dante is repeated in " Ramblings in Cheap-
        side" {Essays on Life, Art, and Science, 1904)—"I know
        people by their friends, and he went about with Virgil."
        In chapter xix. ante we have met with a similar objection
        applied to Charles Lamb, who had the misfortune to be
        taken up by Ainger, and also to Lord Lawrence, the
        mystery of whose acquaintance with Butler's Aunt Sarah
        was used to staunch Miss Buckley.
             When Butler gave an opinion he had usually con
        sidered the subject and settled what he thought about it ;
                                         382

xx1          THE RETURN OF THE JEWS                           383
nevertheless sometimes his expressed dislike of a writer 1883
only meant that he had picked up a general impression Aet. 47
as to his value, was not attracted to him, and did not
propose to spend any time over him, having enough to
do with other writers ; as a man at a banquet with more
than enough to eat may refuse the offer of a new dish by
saying that he does not like it. I do not think, however,
that any amount of study and familiarity would ever
have overcome his dislike of the writers mentioned above.
     The man in the next letter, who wanted Buder to
help in getting the Jews back to Palestine, is also men
tioned in The Note-Books of Samuel Butler. I suppose
he must have been reading Alps and Sanctuaries, and,
like the Rosminian fathers, thought the author could be
turned to a useful purpose.
                      Butler to Miss Butler.
    15 March 1883—I have had no events except a call from a
man who made me one of the most surprising propositions I ever
had made to me in my life. He was a stranger to me and called,
sending in his card. He wanted to introduce me to a certain
Jew who was deeply interested in the return of the Jews to
Palestine ; and he had an idea, which I was to work out for
him, etc., by means of which not the poor Jews only but the
Rothschilds and Oppenheims would be induced to leave England
and settle in Palestine. I will not mention the name of the
gentleman who called on me, and I had rather you said nothing
about it, for you and I and he have friends in common (on the
strength of which it was that he called), and it might come
round. But, as I have said, I think this was the wildest of the
many wild schemes which have been presented to me at one
time and another. I was very civil but quite inexorable. This
happened a couple of days ago.
    I have also heard a story of a boy who was asked by an
examiner, "What are the postulates ? " He replied, "There are
three postulates. Firstly, things that are equal to the same thing
are equal to one another ; secondly, things that are greater than
the same thing are greater than one another ; and thirdly, things
that are less than the same thing are less than one another."
    You asked me if I liked Rossetti's pictures ; I dislike them
extremely ; in fact, they have made me so angry that I cannot
see any good in them at all. But there was a very beautiful
Titian and a lovely Marco Basaiti in the same Exhibition.

        384                      OVERWORK                              xx1
  1883       All this spring Butler was suffering from brain-fag
Aet. 47 with a return 0f tj^e crashes in his head just before going
        to sleep. He could not lessen the anxieties and worries
        arising from his financial difficulties, the strained relations
        with his father, and the anxieties in connection with Pauli ;
        but he might have knocked off some of his work. He
        was managing his houses, and, having learnt book-keeping
        by double entry from his cousin Reginald Worsley, was
        keeping elaborate accounts ; he was re-writing The Way of
        All Flesh ; and he was painting. He sent to the Royal
        Academy four pictures which were all rejected. One was
        a London subject, two were suburban, and the fourth was
        a knight in armour with a landscape background. In
        addition to this he now began to add to his work by
        writing music. He had been continually urging me to
        write something that should be more in the Handelian
        manner than my attempts at music had hitherto been. I
        objected that it was very difficult. He replied that he
        was sure it could be done. I said : '* Very well, then, do
        it and show it to me."
             We were both of us going three evenings a week to
        Heatherley's, and painting from the model in the night-
       school. It happened that for a few days we did not meet,
       and Butler devoted some of the time to preparing a
       surprise for me.         He had never written any music
       before, except a chant and a scrap or two when he was at
       Cambridge. Writing of 1883 he said a couple of years
       later :
            At that time I knew nothing consciously about phrases of
       two, four, eight, or sixteen bars. I did not know what counter
       point was ; and as for harmony, I know about as much now as I
       knew then, i.e. about as much as a governess will teach her pupils
       in a second-rate school. [1885.]
            When we next met at Heatherley's he said he had
       something to play me. Heatherley took us upstairs to a
       room which was a wilderness of Flemish tapestry, Venetian
       mirrors, armour, tortoiseshell cabinets from Spain, pictures
       in gilded frames, and chairs upholstered in tattered
       brocade. In the midst of all this was a modern cottage

xx1                 BUTLER'S MINUET                             385
piano ; Butler sat down to it and played a minuet of his 1883
own composition, while Heatherley, in his loose black et. 47
velvet coat with his pale face and his straggling beard,
stood over us like a medieval necromancer.
     Of course I liked the minuet very much and, having
had an object lesson in what he wanted, set to work to do
something in the same manner. For nearly two years we
were occupied in composing the pieces which formed the
album published by Novello in 1885 as Gavottes, Minuets,
Fugues, and other short pieces for the piano ; the minuet he
played me at Heatherley 's being either the one in G, No.
 15 or the one in F, No. 8. I find it referred to in the
papers sometimes as one and sometimes as the other.
                       Butler to Miss Butler.
     29 March 1883—Thank you for telling me about Bishop
Tozer's speaking warmly of Alpi and Sanctuaries. It is not the
bishops and archbishops I am afraid of. Men like Huxley and
Tyndall are my natural enemies, and I am always glad when I
find church people recognising that the differences between them
and me are, as I believe myself, more of words than of things.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
     22 March 1883—The Ladies' Exhibition is now open, and
I hope you will come and see me. I must warn you that you do
so at the peril of your life, as the cold is so intense. But if you
do die after paying me a visit, you will have the consolation of
knowing that I highly appreciated the attention. I suppose your
father could not be. 1nduced to come?—there is one spot, just
under the ventilator (which is providentially stuck fast), where if
he could be placed for one single moment, it would be enough.
You have been neglecting me shamefully —considering that I
 have not written to you, nor thanked you in any way, you ought
 to have supposed that I was ill, or dead, and enquired accordingly.
 I think you have been exceedingly unkind. However, I will not
 reproach you, but let bygones be bygones.
     My friend Mr. X. is going to be married next week. I agree
 with the proverb that says that a man who marries again does not
 deserve to have lost his first wife—in the case of my friend, how
 ever, there are certainly extenuating circumstances. His good
cook left him, his housekeeper is going to get married, and he felt
      VOL. I                                               2 C

         386             MISS SAVAGE'S GALLERY                            x*.
  1883 himself unequal to the management of flippant parlour-maids and
Aet. 47 rapacious cooks, so he would have had to give up housekeeping
        or get married—at least that is what he says himself. I consider
         myself aggrieved, as his was the only house I liked staying at ;
         there being no missis, it was very comfortable, and one was made
        much of. The intended bride is a cousin of his late wife and is
        somewhat advanced in life—being in fact nearer sixty than fifty ;
        and I presume is very well to do, as all the brothers-in-law and
        cousins are furious, which they would not be if they did not
        think that property was being diverted from them. I hope you
        are very well. I am afraid this weather has put a stop to your
        country excursions. What have you been doing ? Do come and
        see me very soon—you will not be going away for Easter this
        year, I suppose, as the weather is so bad. However I wish you a
        Merry Good Friday and a Happy Easter.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
             8 May 1883—Thank you so much for the paper [a notice
        of my books in a French paper by James Darmesteter. —S. B.]
        which almost consoled me for having missed you in such a
        vexatious manner, the only day that I have been late. It was too
        provoking !
             I return it immediately, as the paper is so flimsy it will soon
        be worn out if you don't back it with some bank post paper. I
        shall get one for myself to keep. Are you not pleased with it ?
        Do you know the writer ? The French people might have found
        you out before, but better late than never. [If they found me
        out they did not like me. I never have had another French
        review.-—S. B.] I have been leaving Alps and Sanctuaries on my
        table at the Gallery, by way of letting it be seen. I hope you do
        not object. I found people liked looking at The Magazine of Art,
        and thought they might look at your book. Do come and see me
        soon again, but not after Saturday week as the Gallery closes for
        good on that day. I am very unhappy, but will tell you why
        when we meet. It is a pity we could not have your father to
        visit the Gallery last week—there was the additional danger of
        the roof falling in—now it is propped up.
             P.S.—A lady the other day at the Gallery was telling me
        about her cat ; he is a most intelligent creature, and she recounted
        various instances of his sagacity, winding up with, "and when I
        begin to play the piano, he always goes out of the room."
              In May, Butler was at Shrewsbury and read that part
        of his grandfather's journal which includes the Italian

xx1                  SHELLEY'S STORM                          387
tour of 1822, referred to ante, p. 10. The reader will 1883
perhaps remember that Dr. Butler, intending to embark Aet. 47
at Lerici, " an accidental or I may rather say a providential
delay " in signing his bill of health for Genoa saved him
from a hurricane that must have been fatal if he had been
out at sea. Just about this time Mr. Garnett gave
Butier a volume of Shelley, and in reading about Shelley's
death it seemed to Butler that it would be interesting to
know whether Providence had used the same storm for
saving Dr. Butler and for wrecking Shelley. He wrote
to his father asking for a copy of the portion of Dr.
Butler's journal which dealt with the event.
     I am sure Mr. Garnett would be interested to know that my
grandfather (who was a friend of his father's) was in any way
connected with that occasion, and would like to see the few
lines he wrote about it, though evidently in ignorance of the
event which was to make it so memorable.
      Canon Butler sent the portion of the journal, and it
turned out that Providence had treated the poet and the
 pedagogue to separate storms. Altogether there were
 three storms in one week.
                        Butler to his Father.
      29 May 1883—Thank you very much. I have worried it
 out, I think, by the help of an 1822 almanack at the British
 Museum. Shelley was lost after having set sail from Lerici on
 Monday, July 8, 1822. This was the first storm. Then came
 another on the night of Thursday, July 1 1, which washed away
 the road. My grandfather arrived probably on the morning of
 the 1 2th, found the road gone, and, with characteristic prompti
 tude, at once engaged a felucca and had his carriage put on
 board. Then came a few hours' delay while his bill of health
 was being examined, and during this a third violent storm broke
 which made the master of the felucca refuse to put to sea.
      Under ordinary circumstances my grandfather would probably
 have waited till the storm was over and then gone on his way by
 sea ; but he evidently thought it well not to do this and, though
 pressed for time, preferred to go all the way round by Florence
 and Bologna, in a way which would not be characteristic
 without good reason. This, I suppose, was that there had been,

        388                 RICHARD GARNETT                               xx1
  1883 to his knowledge, three furiously dangerous hurricanes in a week
Aet. 47 or so, and there were probably rumours that an Englishman had
        been lost a few days before, though Shelley's name and position
        might not be known ; altogether, therefore, the risk at that
        season was greater than he thought it right to incur.
            Writing on Saturday evening, which can only have been
        July 13, he says the storm was "the night before last," so that
        this cannot have been Shelley's storm, which took place on
        Mond. the 8th ; but the Mediterranean gets rough and smooth
        again very rapidly.
                                Butler to his Father.
            28 June 1883—You will confer a great favour upon me if
        you will kindly tell me on enclosed post-card (which I send to
        save trouble) whether I was born in the early part of the day of
        December 4th, 1835, or in the latter part. If you can tell me
        that I was born in the early part you will increase the favour.
            My reason for asking is this. My friend Mr. Garnett of the
        British Museum has, or pretends to have, a craze about astrology.
        I suppose he is not serious, but I really do not know what to
        think. I saw him this morning and said I was not well ; I
        caught a cold from getting wet two or three days ago and was
        yesterday laid up, but am out and about as usual to-day. He
        said : " How curious ! I was afraid you might be ill and was
        thinking of writing to enquire."
            I asked why. He rather hummed and ha'd, and at length
        explained that, if I was born in the latter part of December 4th,
        1835, I should be suffering from the transit (I think he said
        transit) of Saturn, as the Queen and two or three more people
        were. If, however, I was born in the early part of the day it
        would not affect me.
             I do not suppose he is serious, but I should be very glad to
        be able to tell him that I was born in the first part of the day ;
        not that I suppose it is much good, for I have no doubt he will
        find that I am suffering from some other planet whose influence
        he had forgotten when he told me about Saturn. If, however,
        you happen to remember, please let me know.
             I have heard a nice child's story. A little girl was shown a
        picture of Apollyon waiting for Christian and Hopeful in an
        illustrated edition of the Pilgrim's Progress. Next day she said :
            " It so frightened me that I nearly dreamed about it, and if
        you please may I take my pink doll to bed with me to-night to
        protect me ? "
             I do not know that, after all, there is more to laugh at in this
        than in a flirtation with astrology.

 xx1                      ASTROLOGY                             389
      Canon Butler and his son seem to have got on quite 1883
well when it was 'a question of this kind, or Shelley's eu 47
storm, or " Wednesbury Cocking," or the flora of New
 Zealand. The father replied quite amiably that he could
not remember at what hour the son was born.
                       Butler to his Father.
     4 July 1883—I never can understand why Mr. Garnett flirts
with astrology. He is superintendent of the Reading Room of
the British Museum and is certainly the best informed man I
ever met. He is being consulted all day long by readers upon
every conceivable subject, and in the course of his many years'
experience has been initiated into the mysteries of every difficulty
experienced by any student. He has unrivalled facilities for
learning and is as patient as he is learned ; his memory is
singularly retentive ; in fact, he is perhaps the most extraordinary
man—as far as knowledge of all sorts goes—that I ever met. I
suspect he must have taken astrology up as a mere toy, and then
got startled by one or two lucky coincidences. I am afraid
astrology is the one point in which he is vulnerable ; for that he
has a hankering after a bona fide belief that " it has, at any rate,
a foundation in science " is indisputable.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     11 July 1883—Mr. Garnett has read the two first volumes
\The Ivay of All Flesh], and I do not think he much likes them :
he evidently found the first move too slowly ; the second he
liked better. I shall finish it and put it all by, and then, if the
first volume strikes me as too slow after I have not seen it for
some time, I must do the best I can to improve it, but I won't
go on to anything else till I have done this.
      Miss Savage and Mr. Garnett were not the only
people who read The Way of All Flesh in MS. I read
it three distinct times ; first, soon after I knew Buder,
and the end was not settled ; secondly, after it had been
re-written ; and thirdly, after it had been re-written
again. Mr. Heatherley also read it.
     Mr. Heatherley said I had taken all the tenderest feelings 1
of our nature and, having spread them carefully over the floor,
stamped upon them till I had reduced them to an indistinguishable

        39Q                      A PERIODICAL MESS                                        xxx
 1883 1 mass of filth and then handed them round for inspection.                        I do
Aet. 47 not take this view of the matter myself.
                                         Butler to his Father.
               19 July 1883—I have balanced my books (after a very long
        chase after a shilling and a half-penny) and am afraid I ought not
        to go abroad this summer. The properties, take them all round,
        have done well. I have received in actual cash ^2038, but the
        margin of profit from midsummer 1882 to midsummer 1883 (my
        first clear working year) proves to be less than I hoped. I am
        very sorry, but under these circumstances of course I shall stay
        at home.
                                      Butler to Miss Savage.
               19 July 1883—Thank you very much. It is poor1 as you
        say—still it is an advertisement of Erewhon and can do me
        nothing but good. I don't like Erewhon, still it is good for me.
               I cannot go abroad. I am sorry, but I cannot help it. I
        may be able to manage it later on, but at present it looks rather
         bad. I am in one of my periodical messes. I shall pull through.
        But I am in a rather bad way for the moment—but then I always
         think I am in a much worse way than I am. By the way, I
        think you think I like my novel better than I do. I am more
         doubtful about it in reality than about any book I have ever
        done. I never wrote a book yet about which I felt so uncertain
         whether it was good or not. I have no doubt about The Fair
         Haven, Life and Habit, and Alps and Sanctuaries being good—
         but this may, for aught I feel clearly about it, be very good or
        very bad. Some good things I know are in it, but I think it very
        likely it will want cutting down to two volumes ; and if I find
        people think so generally, I shall certainly cut it down.
                                     Miss Savage to Butler.
               20 July 1883—I am very angry with you. I am furious !
        You don't like Erewhon ! I never could have believed you were
        so utterly devoid of good taste—so rude of you too, when you
        know that I like Erewhon—that I love it—you are asserting by
        implication that I am devoid of good taste. Don't dare say such
        a thing to me again. I should like to hurl at you a few of those
        adjectives that I heard hurled the other evening at a man in an
             1 This refers to an enclosure about Erewhon which Miss Savage had sent to Butler :
        it is not with the papers.

 xx1                HOLIDAY IN FRANCE                           391
outrigger—an idiot who, in spite of the whistle, the oaths and the 1883
 fists shaken at him, persisted in rowing across the course of the Aet. 47
 steamboat I was on, evidently for the pleasure of making us back
and stop. One man sitting by me said :
      "      his eyes ; if he wants to cut hisself in two, why don't
he do it hisself? "
      There are many other reasons why I should like to hurl
adjectives at you. In spite, however, of my displeasure I am
sorry that you cannot go away. I suppose those complications of
mortgages, loans, etc., that you said were so " pretty (that was
your own expression), are giving you trouble. I wish I had said
long ago that they would do so, because now I could say " I told
f'ou so ! " which would aggravate you, I am sure—and I should
  ike to aggravate you. I am beginning not to like you at
all. I wish you were like a man I once knew who, when he
unexpectedly had a holiday, could not make up his mind as to
whether he should do nothing or go and lie on his back in the
park. I hope you will write to me soon and that you will be able
to say you have spent some portion of each day in absolute idleness
or utter frivolity.
      I daresay the novel will want no cutting down—all that I
have read is delightful—but I wish you would leave it alone for a
few weeks.
       Butler got out of his mess and did go abroad, but not
to Italy. I was not able to get away in August, so he
went alone, starting from London Bridge and crossing to
Honfleur. He stayed at Caen, Bayeux, Mont St. Michel,
Lisieux, and returned by sea from Havre to London.
He brought back many more sketches than usual because
he drew with the camera lucida, but it distorted the
perspective and had to be given up.
                        Butler to Miss Butler.
      12 Sept. 1883—I am very sorry you do not gain ground
faster. My own experience is that one is not aware of
gaining ground much while one is gaining it, but suddenly one
day one finds oneself pretty well. This is how it has been with
my head this time, and how it always is every year when I go
abroad. It was not till I was at Verona last year—after I had
been five weeks out and did not feel to have gained at all—that it
stole upon me that I was all right again ; but change, if you can
stand it and if you can get it, is the best restorer. A change is to
a person's life what a cross with fresh blood is to an animal or

        392                          CROSSING                             xx1
  1883 plant ; but of course one must be strong enough to stand it. It
Act. 47 rests by giving the mind other objects and, therefore, even though
        it fatigues, there is a gain. Pardon this preaching.
             This letter will remind the reader of the review in The
        Tablet of Alps and Sanctuaries (ante, p. 368). It will also
        remind readers of The Way of All Flesh of how in
        chapter lxix. Edward Overton takes Ernest to consult
        one of the most eminent doctors in London.
             "Cross him," said the doctor at once. . . . " People are always
        coming to me who want crossing, or change, if you prefer it. . . .
        I have found the Zoological Gardens of service to many of my
        patients. I should prescribe for Mr. Pontifex a course of the
        larger mammals."
              In October I was able to get away and went abroad
         by myself for about three weeks. I stayed at Milan,
         Verona, Venice, Padua, and Bergamo. Butler wrote to
         me telling me what pictures I was to see at all these
         places. I give extracts from one of his letters, and I
         have chosen this particular letter because the account of
         Butler at Wilderhope will remind the reader of Ernest
         at Battersby. He must have taken with him a picture
         he had been painting. No apology is needed for the
         repetition of how he offended his father by getting a half-
         holiday for the boys out of Moss (ante, p. 34) ; nor need
         the reader be reminded that Boss, the old woman who acted
         as servant to his cousin, Reggie Worsley, was the original
         of Mrs. Jupp.
                                Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                             15 Cl1fford's Inn, London, E.C.
                                                       Oct. 14, 1883.
             Dear Jones—I returned last night and found yours from
         Zflrich waiting me. I was very glad to get it. You say nothing
         about your lumbago : I hope it is better. I showed your letter
         to my cousin. We went to-day from Elstree via East Barnet
         to Enfield—a nice walk—and had lovely weather till we got back
         to London, ever since which time it has been pouring.
             Boss has been distinguishing herself. . . . She has uttered a
         few other sweet little morsels—as " Lor, Mr. Worsley, when you
         holler at me like that it makes my heart jump out of its socket

xx1                      WILDERHOPE                            393
and back again." And she can't abear anyone as whitelivered in 1883
the face as Bell. However.                                          Aet. 47
     I had no row with my people. I think I told you I got
a half-holiday for the boys out of Moss. My father did not like
it. He blurted out, "Well I do call that a piece of effrontery."
I laughed and said Moss was very well able to take care of
himself.
     The picture was received as a schoolboy's exercise, and
allowed to stand on a chair in the drawing-room till I went ;
there was no enthusiasm about it, and I was told that Dr. Burd
had called during my absence and had liked the background,
from which I gather that he had not liked the face and that they
agreed with him.
     I told them about my head, and how it had got nearly well
and had come on again. " Ah ! " said May, " you wanted
another fortnight." But there was nothing added to the effect,
" Cannot you manage to go out again and set yourself well up before
the winter, or will you not even stay here a few days longer ?"
 It was a physiological fact that I had wanted another fortnight,
but that being established it was enough, and they never asked
after my head any more. I said three times over that I had
enjoyed my visit very much and that it had done me a great
deal of good (it has done me good, for I made an excursion each
day, and am better for it), but they neither of them said they
had been glad to see me and hoped I would always come down
when I wanted a few days' change. They received my expressions
with the utmost coldness that was compatible with bare civility.
 I repeated my expressions three times, and each time did the
 thing handsomely to give them a chance, but they would not
 take it. . . .
     My father appeared well, but I noticed that he hardly walked
 at all except about the house. He takes a cab to go into the
 town and do things which he would have walked to do even in
 May last. As for his walking 9 miles (as per one of May's
 recent letters) I suspect he did walk some miles and brought
 on a slight return of paralysis, from which he recovered almost
 immediately, but which has made Dr. Burd insist on his being
 very careful, for it is clear he will do nothing of the kind now.
 I said to May I thought he was walking firmly and that I saw
 no trace of unsteadiness. She said hastily but significantly,
 " Yes, but when he is tired he is unsteady." I suspect he got
 tired and there was one slight return. May dropped it at once
 and I asked no more. The only thing I see for certain is that
 he now hardly walks at all, except about the house, and that he
 does much less than when I was down in May. I was out each
 of the three days — Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday — from

         394                ITALIAN GALLERIES                            x»
  1883 9 to 5, so I could not observe as closely as if I had been more
Aet. 47 about the house ; and they were running very dark, and putting
         their best foot foremost. I do not think, however, that there
         would be so great an additional caution unless there had been
         a slight, but unmistakeable, intermediate warning.
             And now for my few notes.
             You will soon find out the Bellinis in the Accademia at
        Venice. I think they have all been repainted, or most of them.
        See the Tintorettos in the Scuola di San Rocco. I think he is
        at his best here. See the Carpaccios, of which I spoke to you,
        in the church of S. Giorgio degli Schiavoni. See the two
        Titians side by side in the Accademia at Venice, one painted
        when he was 14 years old and the other 86 years after, when he
        was nearly 100—all sloppy with glaze and perfectly worthless.
        I have no Venetian notes, so cannot help you much, but you
        should see a picture ascribed to Sebastian del Piombo, in the
        church of S. Giovanni Crisostomo, of which one of the figures
        was painted by Giorgione—a female Saint of great beauty ; but,
        though I have looked through my Murray to try and spot it,
        I cannot do so, and I only saw the picture once for five minutes
        a dozen years ago, and might not like it now. My recollection
        is that there is not much of Bellini's best work at Venice. If
        you can reach Pesaro, I am told there is a fine one there.
             At Padua you will see the Arena chapel, of course. Make
        a few notes there. If you go to Modena you will like the
        Duomo and the crypt. There are not many good pictures in
        the gallery—nothing in fact very noticeable. No. 56, a small
        Nativity by Don Lorenzo Monaco, beautiful colour ; 47,
        Masolino ; 320, called a Luca di Leyde, may well be Van Eyck ;
        52, Top of a box by Spinello Aretino ; 46, very fine in colour ;
        390, portrait of a priest by Murillo ; 35 and 145 both very good.
        This is all, or nearly all, I have in my notes and does not come
        to much.
             At Parma see the Correggios, that you may hate the man
        more intelligently. There is a Christ led to crucifixion by
        Lionello Spada at the further end of the big long room on the
        left hand side as you advance from the door, hung rather high ;
       the Christ puts me in mind of Gotch. Nos. 370, 371 : two
       lovely little Cimas—one of them, King Midas taken by a satyr
        to hear Apollo play, is worth a long detour to see. It is exquisite.
       There are also two fine large Cimas.
             There is a small landscape sketch numbered 382 by Titian
       at Parma in a room near the Cimas if not in the same room.
        Do not miss it. See also a series of lovely serio-comic, tempera
        pictures representing events in the life of S. Peter Martyr,
        wherein everything goes wrong — very wrong— till the saint

xx1                          THE FISHERIES                                  395
comes and sets it right. Please make a few notes in front of 1883
these pictures if you go to Parma.                                              Aet. 47
     Above all at Parma see the old ruined theatre under the same
roof as the Accademia.
     There, my dear old man, what a letter I have sent you—I
mean for length, and treasonable parricidal vileness—but I cannot
help it. Take great care of yourself.—Your                       S. Butler.
     I press a copy as it will save my writing notes of my visit
to Wilderhope.
      On my way back I wrote to Butler from the Hotel
dell' Angelo, Faido :
     The signora has given me No. 4, the room into which you
came one morning, more than five years ago, and said :
     " Oh, you've been reading that damned Republic again ! "
      When I came upon this letter among Butler's papers
I remembered the incident. " That damned Republic " was
a translation of Plato which someone had persuaded me
that I ought to read, and Butler saw the book by the
side of my bed.
                           Miss Savage to Butler.
     31 Oct. 1883—I am anxious to know how your poor dear
cat is, and how you are, so if you are not very busy I shall be
glad to hear from you. I send you Pusley* as I promised, and
hope you will like it. I do, so if you don't you had better not
tell me, as I cannot endure people whose opinions are different
from mine. ... I went to the Fisheries exhibition last week
and spent a rather pleasant day. I was by myself for one thing
and, for another, took great delight in gazing at a life-size
model of a sea-captain clad in yellow oil-skins and a sou'wester.
It was executed in that style of art that you so greatly admire
in the Italian churches, and was so good a likeness of you that
I think you must have sat for it. The serious occupations of
my day were having dinner and tea, and the relaxations, buying
shrimps in the fishmarket and then giving them to the seagulls
and cormorants. My most exalted pleasure was to look at your
effigy which I should like to be able to buy, though as I have
not a private chapel in my castle I hardly know where I could
put it if I had it. Upon the whole I enjoyed myself, but I am
glad to hear that the exhibition is to be closed today, so that I
cannot by any possibility go there again.
   1 Pusley, or my Summer in a Garden, by Charles Dudley Warner. London (1873).

        396                 GOING TO CHURCH                           xx1
  1883       Do not forget that you promised I should have some MS. soon
Aet. 47 [The JVay of All Flesh]. . . .
             My mother is particularly well and cheerful today, for our
        servant went to the Fisheries yesterday, and having in obedience
        to orders come home early, she just escaped the explosion, and
        so my mother has been pointing a moral all day long. "Let
        this be a warning to you, Ellen, always to come home punctually ;
        you would most likely have been killed if you had been dis
        obedient " etc., etc. It isn't often that she gets such a chance.
        Ellen really was frightened when she heard that she had so
        nearly been in an accident, but seems to think the "warning"
        is directed against the Underground Railway, and not against
        unpunctuality. . . .
            If you do not like Pusley I shall set you down as a " chill "
        person who cannot "appreciate the luminous side of things" and
        is "unaccustomed to moral thought." (See opinions of the press
        herewith enclosed.)
                               Butler to Miss Savage.
            5 Nov. 1883—I like Pusley very much, and have read it all—
        which I very seldom do with any book—but it wasn't half such
        nice reading as your letter was. I believe I am very like a sea-
        captain. Jones began a likeness of me not long since which I
        will show you next time you come and see me which is also very
        like a portrait of a sea-captain. . . .
            Mr. Garnett has got my third vol. [The Way of All Flesh],
        but will let me have it back in a few days. Then you shall
        have it.
                                 At Mrs. Salter's.
            Last week (Oct. 27, 1883) I went to Basingstoke and met
        Mrs. Thiselton Dyer. She is a daughter of Sir Joseph Hooker
        and is very advanced. I said I should go to church in the
        evening. I said this, partly because I knew she would not like
        it, and partly to please Miss Burd, who I knew would. Mrs.
        Dyer did her best to dissuade me. " Didn't it bore me ? And,
        holding my opinions, ought I not to let people see what I
        thought ? " etc. I said that, having given up Christianity, I
        was not going to be hampered by its principles. It was the
        substance of Christianity, and not its accessories of external
        worship, that I so objected to ; and I would be unprincipled
        whenever and in whatever way I thought convenient. So I
        went to church out of pure cussedness. She could not make it
        out at all. But I won't go again, not just yet awhile if I can

xx1                      UMBRELLAS                            397
help it, for it did bore me.      I had not been for more than 1883
seven years.                                                       Aet. 47
     Mrs. Salter had been Miss Fanny Haycock, the sister
of Butler's schoolfellow who imitated Dr. Kennedy, and
who was the hero of the story of the game of chess and
the glass of cold water and the small piece of bread
and butter (ante, p. 32). Her husband, Mr. Salter, was
a dentist interested in scientific subjects. The Miss Burd
who was at Basingstoke was a daughter of Dr. Burd, the
doctor at Shrewsbury.
     In the following letters the MS. referred to is The
Way of All Flesh. Butler was rewriting it and sending1
it to Miss Savage, but he was not doing it straight
through ; sometimes he sends part of what he calls the
third volume and sometimes, later, part of the first
volume.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
    15 Nov. 1883—It is very kind of you to take so much
trouble, but if you could leave the MS. at the British Museum
in charge of the man who takes the umbrellas close to the
Reading Room door, I should get it safely and you would be
saved a walk. The men know me very well, for I always leave
my things there in preference to mounting up to the ladies' room.
    A lady I know was quite shocked when she saw me one day
getting my umbrella there, and said the authorities would not
like my doing so. I told her that although, no doubt, the
indiscriminate association of male and female umbrellas might,
in a general way, be productive of evil, yet my umbrella, having
become imbued with my personal qualities, might be trusted to
conduct herself with the most perfect propriety. At all events I
should wait for the authorities or the male umbrellas to complain
of her before altering my ways. Perhaps if they hear of my
basket eloping with your MS. I may receive a reprimand ; but I
do not think it likely.
                      Miss Savage to Butler.
    17 Nov. 1883—I read      all the manuscript last night after I
went to bed, so you may      be sure I found it interesting. My
eyes smart dreadfully this   morning, therefore I am in an evil
temper and take advantage   of my condition to grumble. I still

        398                      " PRIGGISH "                           xx1
  1883 think the grand catastrophe wants vraisemblance. Miss Maitland
Aet. 47 may be a respectable young woman if you like, but she must be
        an artful and designing one whose aim is to get money. She
        and her father refuse to be bribed in the hope that there will
        be a remand, and that they will be able to screw more money
        out of Ernest, in which expectation they are, of course, dis
        appointed. She might have made some slight advances towards
        acquaintance with Ernest which might lead up to the catastrophe,
        and Ernest's brain fever might be already in the incipient stage
        which would account for much. As I told you before, a
        respectable young woman would not have made an esclandre,
        and Ernest, poor fellow, according to the impression I receive
        of him, couldn't have frightened a mouse. Your Towneley, too,
        must be toned down—a coarse creature with vicious propensities
        which he indulges in a slum such as you describe Ashpit Place !
             You see I am in a dreadful temper, so I may as well tell you
        that Ernest gets tant soit peu priggish—in fact very much so—
        towards the end, and especially in the treatment of his children,
        which is ultra-priggish. There are no end of delightful little
        bits, but you must not convey the idea that Ernest is only a
        peg on which to hang your theories and fancies. In his marrying
        and unmarrying he is perfectly natural and life-like.
             And now, my spleen being over, I have nothing more to say
        at present except that I greatly enjoyed my first reading, and am
        going to read it again for greater pleasure. It is a very great
        treat to have had it to read, and I quite forgive you for keeping
        me awake till 4.45 a.m. I will bring it back on Wednesday, and
        hope I shall find you well as this leaves me at present.
                             Butler to Miss Savage.
             19 Nov. 1883—I have no doubt Ernest becomes priggish, for,
        as I have told you, I am very priggish myself ; everyone is more
        or less. For the rest, we can talk about it when we meet.
                             Miss Savage to Butler.
             2nd December 1883—I am afraid you will be thinking that I
        have lost or destroyed your MS. It is quite safe however and I
        have enjoyed it immensely. I think it is almost perfect this time.
         It is lovely for Christina to pray that Theobald might be
         beheaded—"Grant that he may be beheaded!"—and I liked
        your calling a clergyman a kind of human Sunday. I was pleased
         with the people who would not face an eternity of torture with
         indifference. Also that there is no decrepitude so awful as child

xx.              A CHURCH ORCHESTRA                           399
hood in a happy, united, God-fearing family. It was very nicely 1883
put, too, where you say that as a man has to run his chance for Aet. 47
 parents, so parents ought not to grumble at having to run their
chance for children. But I shall go on for ever if I do not take
care. All the characters are good, old Pontifex particularly.
You know there is a good deal that I have never seen before, and
all the first part is very much cut down and altered since I saw it
long ago. The style is delightful, and it reads as smooth as
cream. The water of the Jordan episode is also delicious and
told with great effect. So is Dr. Skinner and the glass of cold
water and small piece of bread and butter.
      One part that Miss Savage had not seen before was that
about Ernest's Cambridge days—at least she now objected
 for the first time to his talcing so literal a view of the
Christian miracles. She had known men who were at
Cambridge about the same time—Mr. Sutton, and her
father's eldest brother, and his friend, Mr. Henry Southern,
" the first editor of The Westminster Review, and I should
think ' many, many more ' as Christina would say "—and
she could not believe that they had been then of Ernest's
way of thinking. But Butler assured her that he had
passed through the University without coming into contact
with scepticism in any way.
      In reply to her doubting his having ever heard a
trombone in church (The Way of All Flesh, chap, xiv.) he
wrote that certainly he had, there used to be one at
Langar—" a trombone, a clarinet, a violoncello were the
three instruments, and such an assortment was the normal
thing in small out-of-the-way village churches forty years
ago." Miss Savage replied :
     I should very much like to have heard a trombone in a
church. I have heard bassoons and oboes and, I think, serpents
—and once I heard a bugle—but a trombone never. If anything
would make me go to church it would be to hear a trombone.
Was it a bass trombone ? Some people are born to good luck,
and you are one of them.
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
     yd December 1883 [After asking her to leave the MS. at
the Museum with the umbrella people he continues :]—I always
give them 5/- at Christmas which no one else does, so they are

        4oo                ROBERT DONCASTER                           xx1
  1883 very ready to do any little thing for me. . . . My own idea is
Aet. 47 that the first vol. is the best of the three, the second the next
        best, and the third the worst—but then they have been re-written
        just in this order, the first having been ten years in hand, the
        second five, and the third only one. But I don't suppose I shall
        be able to do very much more to it, at any rate not until I have
        put it by and forgotten it for some time ; then I must begin with
        the third volume.
             Miss Savage had offered to bring the MS. back, and
        supposed that she could leave it with his laundress, Mrs.
        Corrie, if he was out. There was no objection to her
        doing so, but—
            Mrs. Corrie is not Mrs. Corrie ; she is Mrs. Doncaster. We
        believe Mr. Corrie is still alive, but we do not know. At any
        rate, he disappeared so many years ago that she considered herself
        justified in marrying again.
             And so she had married Robert Doncaster, a feeble,
        half-witted old man, who used to clean Butler's boots and
        windows and run errands and help his laundress. He was
        useful also in another way. Butler resembled the animals
        in Walt Whitman in that he was " not demented with
        the mania of owning things." His plan was to give any
        books or other articles that he had done with to Robert,
         and never to inquire into their subsequent history. Thus
         his rooms, which were not large, did not get lumbered
         up, and he was able to find what he wanted.
              To understand Miss Savage's next letter the reader
         must know that she had taken to speaking of Butler's old
         friend, the Rev. Joseph M'Cormick, as " Mr. M'Dermott."
         Perhaps she did this to signify that she did not understand
         how the author of The Fair Haven could have a clergy
         man among his friends. Of course, " M'Cormack " is an
         intentional mistake for " M'Cormick " to emphasise her
         stupidity about names. And it only commits her to what
         was the mere fact, that " Mr. M'Dermott's name was not
         M'Cormack."
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
             4 Dec. 1883—I humbly beg Mrs. Doncaster's pardon. Of
         course I knew her name was no longer Corrie, but I am so stupid

xx1          MISS SAVAGE AND ALETHEA                            40 1
about names sometimes. Do you remember that I was ever so 1883
long before I could remember that Mr. M'Dermott's name was Aet. 48
not M'Cormack ?
     A clergyman was examining the children of a village school
in the Parable of the Good Samaritan, and after explaining that
" priest " meant " clergyman " asked, " Why did the priest go by
on the other side ? " " Please, sir," said one boy, " because the
man had been robbed already."
      Butler asked Miss Savage if she would object to tell
this story to his father. She replied, 6th December
 1883:
     Not in the least, but I should prefer to tell it of him and,
unless I hear to the contrary from you, I shall for the future
begin by saying, "The Rev. Thomas Butler was once examining
some school children," etc.
     I like the second volume very much and think you have
immensely improved it, or it improves of itself on second reading.
I think you make the aunt a little ridiculous when you say that
she preferred encouraging others to painting or writing herself.
When people do not do things themselves, it is either because
they could not if they tried, or because they are lazy, or because
they have something else to do, or because they are morbidly
vain. But Aunt Alethea was perfect. You make her like that
most odious of women Mrs. John Stuart Mill who, though
capable of surpassing Shelley, preferred to efface herself for the
greater comfort of Mr. John Stuart Mill ! At least that is what
 he was so extraordinarily simple - minded as to be taught to
 believe. By the by I see in his Autob1ography that Mr. Southern
 was not the first editor of the Westminster, and that he was only
 the literary editor. "Above all," as Miss Helen Taylor said,
when she wanted verbatim reports of the School Board Meetings
published, " Above all, let us be historical."
      I never could make up my mind whether Miss Savage
knew that Butler was thinking of her when drawing
Alethea ; she writes as though she did not ; she also
writes as though she did not know how great was the
debt he owed her for her sympathy and encouragement.
      Early in December Butler was telegraphed for to go to
Shrewsbury, his father being seriously ill with bronchitis.
Miss Savage wrote :
     I was distressed to receive your letter last night, for I know
exactly what you must be feeling. I have been through the
     vol- I                                                2 D

        4o2       MISS SAVAGE'S CHRISTMAS CARD                     x»
 1883   same experience myself when my mother has been dangerously
Aet. 48 ill ; only it is worse for you, because you are more kindly-
        natured than I am and your feelings are more acute. I am
        grieved that you should ever have a painful moment. I hope
        you will take care and keep well and not allow yourself to be
        depressed by any failure in kindly feeling on the part of your
        relations towards you. I wish I had not written that flippant
        note just at that moment.
             Canon Butler recovered, and before Christmas Butler
        was back from Shrewsbury with a voluminous note of all
        that had happened during the illness—a note which he
        used for Christina's death-bed in revising The Way of
        All Flesh.
             He did not see his way to using for Alethea, or for
        any one else, a card which Miss Savage sent him this
        Christmas. She was quoting from memory and wrote :
                         God bless you, merry gentleman,
                           May nothing you dismay,
                         Though Jesus Christ, the Lord of all,
                           Was born upon this day.

                     CHAPTER XXII
                            1884—Part I
           SELECTIONS FROM PREVIOUS WORKS
                      Butler to Miss Butler.
    9 Jan. 1884—Some thirteen or fourteen years ago I gave a 1884
couple of po1fnds for a picture, purporting to be by Reynolds, at Aet. 48
an auction in Oxford Street. I thought it was one, and so did
Heatherley, whom I got to come and look at it before I bought
it. I have had it ever since, and in the autumn, seeing there
was to be a Reynolds Exhibition, I determined to send it in on
loan. They have accepted it as, so writes their secretary [Mr. C.
E. Halle] "an indisputable Reynolds," and hung it; so I now
figure in the catalogue as having lent them a Reynolds. It is not
in a very good state, but it can be restored ; and, if ever I want
to sell it, now that I can give it a character and appeal to its
having been in the Grosvenor Gallery Exhibition, I think it
should be worth something, so I am rather pleased.
     The Reynolds was a portrait of the Countess of
Egremont. Butler kept it all his life and left it by will
to his solicitor, Russell Cooke.
     About this time Romanes published Mental Evolution
in Animals. Butler was preparing a book of Selections
from Op. 1 to Op. 6, i.e. from Erewhon to Alps and
Sanctuaries, and took the opportunity of adding to it
some " Remarks " upon Romanes' book, in which occurs
the statement about Kingsley referred to in the following
letter.
                      Butler to Miss Butler.
    1 Feb. 1884—I am very sorry for the black cat. I am sure
animals feel very jealous of a new inmate when they have had
everything their own way for some years. I hope, however, that
                                 403

        404                             " ME "                         xx11
  1884 her age and experience will make her able to hold her own, and
Aet. 48 shall be glad to hear that the two have found a modus vivendi.
         I should think the old black cat carried as many guns as most
        cats do, and will find ways of saying nice little nasty things if
        the new one does not fall into her proper place.
             I see advertised a book, The Sagacity and Morality of Plants.1
         It is to appear shortly. What are we coming to ? And what
         will the vegetarians do ? You know, perhaps, that Mr. Darwin
         in his later years edged strongly towards giving intelligence to
        plants, though he never went so far as to say so point blank. I
        shall be very curious to see this book. I wonder whether the
         writer will say that carrots are passionate because they have such
        a red root.
             I saw this advertised in last week's (or the week before)
        Athenaeum. In last week's I had a letter challenging Mr.
        Romanes for having given a wrong reference. He said Canon
        Kingsley first advanced the theory connecting heredity and
        memory, and did so in Nature, Jan. 18th 1867* I went to
        Nature to see what Canon Kingsley had said, and found that
        Nature did not begin to appear at all till nearly three years after
        this date, and that there was nothing from Kingsley in any way
        bearing upon the subject. So I wrote in The Athenaeum asking
        for the correct reference, very civilly, assuming that Mr. Romanes
        had made a slip. Romanes has not replied, and I could see by
        the smile on the editor's face when we discussed the matter that
        he did not expect him to. I should have thought he would have
        done so.
             The editor of The Athenaeum announced my book of Selections
        very prominently in the preceding week. I thought he had
        done it by chance, but it was not so for he said : " I gave your
        announcement an exceptionally good place."
             When I was so unpopular after writing Evolution Old and
        New, the Athenaeum and Academy both declined to announce my
        two next books Unconscious Memory and Alps and Sanctuaries.
        As they have both given prominence to my new announcement I
        flatter myself that I am making way. I think that Mr. Darwin's
        being no longer alive will make a great difference to me.
             What a lot I have written about my books ! But then, my
        books are to me much the most important thing in life. They
        are, in fact, " me " much more than anything else.
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
             19 Feb. 1884—I am well—have had one of my bad colds, but
        am through it and am now none the worse, but God does not do
                                1 By Dr. John Ellor Taylor.

xx11                          NASTY REMARKS                                   405
all for me that I should like him to do "as soon as possible."1 1884
 I have been very busy with my book of Selections which will be Aet. 48
out in about a fortnight. I have touched them up and they read
very well. The three chapters of " Remarks " upon Romanes
are as nasty as anything can well be, and the preface is also very
nasty. I cannot send them as I have only one copy ; as soon as
 I get more I will do so.
      You saw, perhaps, my letter in The Athenaeum four weeks
ago re Romanes. . . . His [Romanes'] new book adopts the
 Life and Habit theory, but, of course, never mentions me. This
I have pointed out sufficiently and quoted the passages in which
he scoffed at this theory three years ago. I have had a good
square go in at old Darwin, G. H. Lewes, Romanes, Grant
 Allen, and Herbert Spencer, much in the same key as the opening
chapters of Unconscious Memory.
      As soon as this is done I shall take vol. iii. of the novel and
rewrite it and stick in some bits that have got to go in. Also
I mean to take out about forty weak pages from Erewhon and
stick in about forty stronger ones—among them the trial of a
middle-aged man "for not having lost his father at a suitable
age. ...
      My father remains much in statu quo ; he comes down
about 10 and keeps entirely to the house ; remains weak and
never, I should think, likely to recover fully, but may hang on
for months or go off with the N.E. winds which we are sure
to get later on. I am well enough, but low and, as usual,
clinging to ledges of precipices with bright green slopes of easy
pasture always well in sight and always eluding me, especially
when I think I am closest to them. However, if there is anything
of devil in my books it is this which has in great measure put
it into them.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
      Feb. 21, 1884—I was intending to write to you the very day
I received your letter. I was afraid you were ill. I am quite
well, thank you. This beautiful weather, which is so good for
your father, is also good for me ; but I am busy and have been
staying at the gallery sometimes till 6 o'clock and past. . . .
     I am sorry to hear that you have a bad cold. I daresay you
caught it sketching out of doors, or doing something just as
imprudent, so you have only had what you deserved to have.
But I, who look forward to a long life and wish for as much
pleasure as possible, have a right, I think, to feel injured when
    1 " Mr. Spurgeon was reported as having recently asked the Almighty ' to change
our rulera at mm at possible '" {Life and Habit, chapter ii.).

        4o6                 PROFESSOR MIVART                            xxn
  1884 an author whose books delight me is so culpably careless about
Aet. 48 his health.
             I had not seen your letter in The Athenaeum, but I have got it
        now, and am much obliged to you for telling me of it. I am
        longing to see your chapter of " Remarks." When may I have it ?
        I meant all I said about the Selections [No doubt we had met. I
        find nothing that will fit in with this in the letters.—S. B. 1901]
        and I am sure the volume will be a delightful one. . . .
             Don't forget to let me have your " Remarks " [on Romanes]
        soon. I was going to say "as soon as possible," but that con
        ditional phrase has become so sanctified that it is not appropriate
        for use between two such sinners as ourselves. But I do want them
        soon, as a little pleasure would be good for me just now ; the
        making of catalogues is wearying and worrying, and I am very
        stupid and want something to waken up my wits. Besides I am
        going to hear Mr. Romanes lecture next Sunday and I should like
        to read the "Remarks" before then. Are you going to hear him ?
        You can hear him for a penny. I daresay he is dear at that, so I
        am not going to pay a penny but have asked for a ticket. I hope
        you will come round to the gallery soon after the opening. Not
        the first two days, please, but soon after.
             I hope your dear cat is well.
              Butler's publisher, Trubner, had been dining with
        Professor St. George Mivart who, he told Butler, had
        spoken very warmly of his books.
               " But," said Trubner, " though he likes your books
        he is very much offended with you. He sent you a
        letter and a review of your books by himself and you
        never replied."
               Butler accordingly wrote and explained that he had
         received neither letter nor review, and this led to a
         correspondence. Mivart lent Butler his own copy of the
         review, which was entitled " The Soul and Evolution,"
         and had appeared in an American periodical, The Catholic
         Quarterly Review, for 1881.             In a letter to his sister
         Buder wrote :
              It is very vexatious, for Professor Mivart is one of the few
         men I can look to in the scientific world for anything like an
         alliance and support ; and when he had made an advance to be
         supposed to be rude enough to take no notice of it is a piece of
         pure bad luck. However it is all right now.
               In acknowledging the review he wrote to Mivart

   xx..         STILL FLIRTING WITH ROME                                       407
   (27th February 1884) that he found his article most sym- 1884
  pathetic, and continued with an attempt to minimise the et. 4
  difference between his own views on religion—for religion,
  as he wrote, cannot be kept out of evolution—and those of
  the Roman Catholic Church, of which Professor Mivart
  was a member :
       I see the action of God throughout the universe. It is the
  universe itself which assures me that there is intelligent action
  present throughout it. When a man says defiantly that he does
  not care whether this is so or not, it means that he cares a great
  deal and has pretty well made up his mind what he is going to
  think. I grant I had better not have said these words ; it is
  however five years since I did so and I have virtually retracted
  them more than once since then.1
       I imagine you to see God as something apart from the
  universe which he has taken and moulded, as it were, in the
 hollow of his hand, and into which he has breathed the breath
 of life.
       I see him as animating the universe—he in us, and we in him ;
 so that the union between God and his creatures seems closer,
 more indissoluble, and, at the same time, more literal and bona
 fide, than I can imagine it to be as seen from any other standpoint;
 but, in the first place, I should be very sorry to say I was not
 mistaken ; and, in the next, admitting design, as I cordially do,
 is it such a very great matter, after all, whether the designer is
 within the organism or without it ? Surely this is a detail in
comparison with getting people to see that there is design at all.
      I acknowledge with pleasure the obligation I am under to
 you for having shown me the fallacy of natural selection. I
 walked through it all till I read your Genesis of Species. It is
also a pleasure to think that I lost no time in attacking natural
selection myself when I saw how I had been humbugged (for
really there is no other word that will do as well) by it. This
much, at any rate, we have in common, and, though we do not
approach more nearly, it is much to have approached so near.
      Professor Mivart's reply was such as to confirm
Butler's hope of alliance and support, but nothing more
came of the correspondence than had come of the flirtation
with the Rosminian Fathers. Professor Mivart sent the
proof of another paper he was about to publish and
Butler replied, 29th February 1884 :
    1 " These words " are, I suppose, words used by Butler and quoted by Mivart in
the review of Butler's books.

        4o8                        ROMANES                             xx»
  1884      I know you wish me to speak without reserve, and therefore,
Aet. 48 though very unwillingly, say it does not convince me or even
        move me. As an exposition of the vast superiority of man's
        powers I admit its force ; still I have so long and so often
        approached this subject with no other desire than to think what
        the balance of evidence requires of me, and have found the
        balance so decidedly in favour of regarding man and the lower
        animals as descended from a common ancestor, that I fear I am
        now incapable of adopting any other conclusion.
            If I could except Handel, Giovanni Bellini, and others whom
        I revere, and put them in some other category from Mr. Darwin,
        Professor Huxley, Mr. Romanes, and their like, I would do so
        in a moment, but, though they stand morallv, if not intellectually,
        very far asunder, I cannot class these people as even specifically
        different.
             Selections from Previous Works, with Remarks on
        Romanes' " Mental Evolution in Animals" and A Psalm of
        Montreal was published in March. The fact that Romanes
        was looked upon as the executor of Mr. Darwin in the
        matter of evolution gave his book on mental evolution
        considerable prominence. Butler points out that such
        phrases as " the lifetime of the species," " hereditary
        experience," " hereditary memory " had been freely used
        but, until Professor Hering's address and Life and Habit,
        no writer had shown a comprehension of the fact that they
        are unexplained so long as heredity is unexplained. The
        theory of Hering and Life and Habit " reduces life from
        an equation of, say, 100 unknown quantities to one of
        99 by showing that heredity and memory, two of the
        original 100 unknown quantities, are in reality one and
        the same thing."
             Romanes in reviewing Unconscious Memory in Nature
        (27th January 1881) had spoken of the theory of Life and
        Habit as " interesting if advanced merely as an illustration,
        but to imagine that it maintains any truth of profound
        significance or that it can possibly be fraught with any
        benefit to science is simply absurd."            Nevertheless in
        Mental Evolution in Animals he adopted the theory.
        Butler, however, did not look upon him as a desirable
        supporter. In the course of his " Remarks " he says :
            It will take years to get the evolution theory out of the mess

xxn             MERMAN AND GRAMPUS                            409
in which Mr. Darwin has left it. He was heir to a discredited 1884
truth ; he left behind him an accredited fallacy. Mr. Romanes, if Aet. 48
he is not stopped in time, will get the theory connecting heredity
and memory into just such another muddle as Mr. Darwin has
got evolution. . . .
    I gather that in the end the late Mr. Darwin himself
admitted the soundness of the view [connecting heredity and
memory]. Mr. Romanes quotes a letter written by Mr. Darwin
in the last year of his life, in which he speaks of an intelligent
action gradually becoming "instinctive, i.e. memory transmitted
from one generation to another."
     Grant Allen also had come to much the same
conclusion after having attacked Butler, though not so
fiercely as Romanes.
     On the 1st March, just before Butler's book appeared,
The Athenaeum contained a review of Romanes' book,
Mental Evolution in Animals, by a writer who understood
the situation and stated it clearly. Butler did not know
who he was, nor do I. " The phrase ' hereditary memory '
is due to Mr. S. Butler. . . . And yet Mr. Butler's
name is studiously avoided throughout' Mr. Romanes's
discussion." The review goes on to refer to " How we
encourage Research " in The Impressions of Theophrastus
Such, by George Eliot, and contains this passage :
    Merman, in this amusing sketch, finds some flaws in the
theories of the great Grampus, " whose book is cried up as a
revelation," and ventures on publishing his refutation. He is
scoffed at by the initiated and becomes a bore to his friends, but
has finally the doubtful satisfaction of seeing his modification
silently adopted by the great Grampus. Mr. Butler would seem
to have suffered some such fate at the hands of Mr. Darwin's
literary executor, as Mr. Romanes is to all intents and purposes in
the question of instinct.
     This led to a correspondence, consisting of three
letters from Romanes and three from the reviewer, one
from Professor Ray Lankester, and one from Butler and
closing on the 5th April with one from Herbert Spencer
giving extracts from his Principles of Psychology, published
nearly twenty years previously, the chief of which Butler
had quoted in his " Remarks " on Romanes' book.
Herbert Spencer concludes his letter with these words :

        41o                 HERBERT SPENCER                                 «u
  1884       As it is, I have ascribed the entire process of mental evolution
Aet. 48 in all its forms and degrees to the inheritance of accumulated
        modifications of structure consequent upon modifications of
        function ; successively higher grades of conscious actions passing,
        by constant repetitions, into unconscious or automatic actions,
        and so forming organized faculty. I still hold that inheritance of
        functionally-produced modifications is the chief factor throughout
        the higher stages of organic evolution, bodily as well as mental
        (see Principles of Biology, § 166), while I recognize the truth that
        throughout the lower stages survival of the fittest is the chief factor,
        and in the lowest the almost exclusive factor.
                                Butler to Miss Butler.
            9 April 1884—Herbert Spencer's letter is, to my mind, the
        most important thing in the whole controversy. It assures me
        that I was already aware of and had not missed his most important
        passages and those he gives do not enable him to claim more, even
        himself, than to have done the thing "by implication." As a
        matter of fact no one understood him to mean what he now
        implies that he did mean. The editor thought his letter (to use
        the editor's own words) "without definite aim" so that I need
        not reply, and I was very glad not to do so ; so the matter will
        drop, but in an Appendix to Life and Habit [this became Luck or
        Cunning ? 1886], I will say what I think advisable.
                               Butler to Canon Butler.
            2 April 1884—I went on Sunday, by invitation, with Mr.
        and Mrs. Phipson Beale to some people at Carshalton of the name
        of Tylor. One of their daughters married a son of John Bright's
        not long ago, and another is married to a son of Canon Morse's,
        who was there (I mean the son, not the canon) with his wife, and
        I thought them nice people. Mr. Tylor asked the Beales to
        bring me because of Life and Habit and, knowing him to be a
        man well up in the scientific world, I went.
              Mr. Alfred Tylor was elder brother of Sir Edward
        B. Tylor, the well-known anthropologist. He was a
        metal manufacturer and colliery owner in South Wales ;
        he was also interested in technical education and in
        many scientific subjects, including, particularly, geology
        and evolution. In a paper read before the Anthro

xx11            TYLOR'S EXPERIMENTS                         4n
pological Institute in 1879, On a New Method of Express- 1884
ing the Law of Specific Change, Mr. Tylor had advocated Aet. A%
ideas about the physical continuity of parents and off
spring similar to those set forth in Life and Habit, and
formed before he had read that book. He was about ten
years Butler's senior ; they became interested in one
another at once, met often, and took great pleasure in
each other's society.
     In his garden at Carshalton Mr. Tylor had been carry
ing out experiments to determine the nature of the move
ments of the growing parts of plants, other researches
having led him to suspect that the plants " would show a
certain degree of power of adaptation or a low class of
intelligence." I accompanied Butler to see him in May
 1884, and he took us round his shrubbery and showed us
how he had tied up the branches of the horse-chestnut
trees in such a way that the leaves, on bursting from the
buds, ought to have touched one another, yet they always
managed to avoid touching anything.
                      Butler to Miss Butler.
     13 May 1884—Mr. Salter last night told me a delightful piece
of scientific scandal against Mr. Ray Lankester—how he mis
behaved about a medusa found in a water-tank at the Botanical
 Gardens. I was so pleased.
     This is the Mr. Salter, the dentist, mentioned in the
 preceding chapter, p. 397. I suppose that Butler must have
 met him on the 1 2th May, and that he afterwards lent Butler
 a letter from Professor George J. Allman, F.R.S., which
 Butler returned to him in the following letter. Butler
 kept no copy of Professor Allman's letter, but, no doubt,
 it mentioned the fresh-water medusa, as to which the
 reader is referred to Nature from June to August 1880,
 where he will find letters both from Ray Lankester and
 Professor Allman on the subject. We need not go into
 the details here. Butler made the returning of Allman's
 letter an occasion to explain his position to Mr. Salter.

        412                     RAY LANKESTER                                       xxn
                                  Butler to Mr. Salter.
  1884        13 June 1884—Again I thank you and return Professor
Aet. 48 Allman's letter. I won't stir up old mud and had better perhaps
        explain my views more fully.
             Ray Lankester attacked me [Athenaeum, March 29th 1884]
        offensively and, among other things, spoke of my having " tardily
        recognised " Professor Hering as my predecessor in bringing
        forward the theory connecting heredity and memory. [Ray
         Lankester also wrote a little lower down: "Mr. Butler may
         claim originality as the only writer who has sought to gain
        notoriety for himself by offering personal insult to Mr. Darwin."
         I make no comment.—S. B. Jan. 31st 1902.]
              As a matter of fact, I behaved very well towards Professor
         Hering, and Ray Lankester knew that I had done so. A few
         days after Life and Habit appeared I, for the first time, came to
         know what Professor Hering had said. I wrote a short time
         afterwards to The Athenaeum and called attention to all I knew.
              In Evolution Old and New I quoted all that Ray Lankester had
         given about Hering and gave him all the prominence I could, but
         knowing no German I could do no more.
              Then I learned German and translated Hering's Address and
         published the whole thing in Unconscious Memory ; and I always
         have spoken of the theory as Professor Hering's from the time
         that I became aware that he ' had forestalled me ; and yet, after
        all, Hering only said what he did in an Address of 30 pages long,
         published fourteen years ago, and has never touched the matter
         since. He drew not one. of the many inferences which wanted
         drawing, and did not succeed in interesting people in the subject ;
         whereas I, approaching the matter from a totally different side,
         have written book after book about it for some years past, and do
         now see my opinion generally adopted by those who ought to
         know and who were the first to try and jump upon myself.
         Nevertheless, as I have said, I never speak of the theory except as
         Professor Hering's and, in fact, have behaved in all ways as I
         should wish to have done as regards him.
              This Professor Ray Lankester perfectly well knows, but he
         knew it would be a long story and that I should probably not
         reply and that some mud might stick, so he flung his "tardy
         recognition " at me, and I do not think it well that this sort of
         thing should be done with absolute impunity.
              When, therefore, in my Appendix to Life and Habit1 I deal
         with Romanes', Ray Lankester's, and Herbert Spencer's recent
            1 Thi« became Luck or Cunning? which, though dated 1887, actually appeared in
        November 1886.

                    IMITATING HANDEL                           413
letters to The Athenaeum I shall allude to this and just say that 1884
there is no foundation for such a charge ; and then it is in my Aet. 4*
mind to add that such charges come with an ill grace from the
gentleman who described the freshwater medusa (see Nature, vol.
xxii. p. 316, and preceding numbers).
     It is all very well to say that one ought to be always quite
good—so, of course, one ought—but then, science is infested by
a lot of false prophets who do nothing but mischief and try to
stamp out everything which does not emanate from themselves ;
and I don't quite see how to meet this sort of thing and yet
make things pleasant all round for everyone.
     I was very much pleased at what Mrs. Salter heard about Life
and Habit. I really do not see that there is much the matter
with the main theory it upholds.
      Ever since Butler had played me his minuet on
Heatherley's piano, we had been giving all our spare time
to the writing of short pieces of music ; we were even
so ambitious as to attempt fugues. Of course all our
music was to be as like Handel's as we could get it. The
popular notion that Handel is a composer of sacred music
exclusively is not correct ; he wrote many minuets, gigues,
and bourrees which are dances ; and he wrote oratorios
upon secular as well as upon sacred subjects. Moreover,
even when writing a sacred oratorio, secular subjects are
introduced, and he was never at a loss in treating any
thing that came into his words by allusion or as an
illustration. As Butler puts it in one of his sonnets
(The Note-Books of Samuel Butler, 1912) :
           He who gave eyes to ears could paint in sound
           All thoughts and things in earth or heaven above—
           From fire and hailstones running along the ground
           To Galatea grieving for her love ;
           He who could show to all unseeing eyes
           Glad shepherds watching o'er their flocks by night,
           Or Iphis angel-wafted to the skies,
           Or Jordan standing as an heap upright—
And so on. But with all his versatility there is one
subject which Handel never treated—I mean the money
market. Butler's financial difficulties made him regret
the omission, and we wondered what had occasioned it.
 Handel was twice bankrupt, and Mr. R. A. Streatfeild

        414                  NARCISSUS BEGUN                                   u11
  1884 tells me that the British Museum has recently acquired a
Aet. 48 ^|g letter of his (of which Butler knew nothing) giving
        directions as to the payment of some dividends on £500
        South Sea Stock. Let us hope he was more fortunate
        than Buder and sold out before the Bubble burst. We
        thought it a pity that Handel and Dr. Morell had not
        turned out something of this kind :
               Pomposo.
                    The  stead . fast funds main . tain their wont - ed state.
        And if Dr. Morell had completed his couplet by adding
        " While all the other markets fluctuate," what would Handel
        have done with the words ? Would he have sent the
        funds up above par and left them steadfastly there on an
        inverted pedal, while all the other markets fluctuated
        iniquitously round them like the sheep that turn every one
        to his own way in the Messiah ? There was no answering
        such questions, and the only course seemed to be for us
        to attack the subject ourselves, and to treat it in a
        Handelian oratorio of our own. We remembered and
        adopted the opinion of Monsieur Jourdain's Maltre a
        Danser that " lorsqu'on a des personnes a faire parler en
        musique, il faut bien que, pour la vraisemblance, on donne
        dans la bergerie " ; and, accordingly, Narcissus is about
        shepherds who come to London and lose their money in
        imprudent speculations upon the Stock Exchange. A
        happy ending being indispensable, the aunt and god
        mother of the hero dies at an advanced age, having by
        will bequeathed a legacy to her nephew and godson who,
        upon hearing the news, sings :
                        I never knew her worth till now ;
                           A hundred thousand pound !
                        Small is my loss indeed, I vow,
                            Compared with what I've found.
                        Oh ! had she known I'd lost so much
                            Or ere her pulse was still,
                        Her testament had not been such,
                            She would have changed her will.
            This is the song Butler was struggling with when he

xxn             "LA LANGUE TURQUE"                             415
wrote Miss Savage the next letter, wherein he refers to 1884
Narcissus as " the serenata."                                      Aet. 4*
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     2 May 1884—I have very much improved vol. iii. [771e Way
of All Flesh] and put in a lot. I am developing Mrs. Jupp and
have given her two more long rattles ; she will do as a good foil
to Christina. And I have put in many nice things and taken out
much of the priggishness. Jones and I are going ahead fast with
the serenata. It will be lovely. . . .
     I have got a beautiful symphony for my song, describing what
the will would have been if she had changed it. The key is
 abruptly changed at this point and a few solemn ecclesiastical
chords, concluding with a plagal cadence, express the testatrix's
 consciousness of her approaching end and the solemnity of the
 occasion. Then, in a few bustling bars, her servants go in haste
 to fetch the family solicitor who arrives and does all the common
 form of the will under the influence of a dominant pedal ; the
 motive already introduced as expressing the hundred thousand
 pounds earlier in the scene is now returned to, and you see that
 the main bequest is reached ; but the subject is augmented here
 to make it even more imposing. She then signs, and two
 hautbois witness it in a couple of bars. By a few modulating
 chords I return to the original key ; and the listener is made to
 understand that the will has not been really changed at all, the
 singer just repeating " I never knew her worth till now " to show
 how deeply he is impressed with his aunt's goodness in not having
 changed her will. The whole symphony is only three lines. I
assure you we are doing it very nicely.
      Miss Savage, who knew her Bourgeois Gentilhomme,
 replied that this description reminded her of " la langue
 turque qui dit beaucoup en peu de paroles," and in fact it
 says more than Butler was able, in the end, to pack into
 his music. At one time he intended to treat the situation
 in a somewhat different manner about which I had for
 gotten, and was reminded by finding this note of it with
 the MS. of Narcissus when I was arranging it for the
 binder :

        416             IMITATING DR. MORELL                            xxn
                                        PART II
                              INTRODUCTORY SYMPHONY
  1884 during which the audience is requested to think as follows :
Aet. 48                   An aged lady, taken ill,
                          Desires to reconstruct her will.
                          I see her servants hurrying for
                          The family solicitor ;
                          Post-haste he comes and with him brings
                          The usual necessary things ;
                          With common form and driving quill
                          He draws the first part of the will ;
                          The more sustained aud solemn sounds
                          Denote a hundred thousand pounds.
                          This trifle is the main bequest,
                          Old friends and servants take the rest.
                          'Tis done. I see her sign her name,
                          I see the attestors do the same.
                          Who is the happy legatee ?
                          In the next numbers you will see.
             This opening was discarded— I do not remember why,
        perhaps because it was thought, on further consideration,
        to be out of harmony with the Handelian tradition
        (though Handel does occasionally introduce descriptive
        symphonies), perhaps because Butler could not satisfy
        himself, perhaps because it appeared to be trying to beat
        Dr. Morell on his own ground.
                                Butler to Miss Butler.
            5 May 1884—We are writing our own words [to Narcissus]
        as well as the music, and imitating the style of Handel's librettist,
        Dr. Morell. We are surprised to find that the style is one which
        lends itself singularly well to music, and think that much better
        poetry would not have been half so well suited for the particular
        purpose that Handel had in view. We have to cover a sheet of
        foolscap with trial rhymes before we get the right thing, but what
        we have got so far will suit us very well.
                               Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
            15 June 1884—I went to an At Home at Mrs. Webster's one
        night fast week and met all sorts of people—most of them I

xx11             A CONSPIRACY OF ONE                            417
thought odious, but there were some nice ones. Canon Morse's son 1884.
and his wife were there ; they are nice people and I like them well Aet. 48
enough. But Miss Lydia Becker got hold of me and lectured me
till I was nearly mad ; and the Moncure Conways said I must go
and see them at their house at Bedford Park, and I said I would
not ; and Lewis Morris, the poet, and I (who know each other
perfectly well and used to meet continually at the Century) cut
each other by mutual consent. He likes to get me to nod to him
first and then give me the smallest recognition he can ; and he
is so insufferably conceited that I determined not to play at this
any longer, so I looked at the top of his head as long as was in the
least proper and never nodded. . . . Mrs. Webster is Augusta
Webster who writes poems and is always mentioned when people
are naming a few women of real genius, so of course she must be
a genius. I do not think I much like this sort of thing. It kept
me up very late, and I cannot stand late hours ; I am fit for
nothing all next day.
              Clodd, Grant Allen, and Myself
     I forgot to say that when I met Edward Clodd at Webster's
about a year ago, Clodd, under the pretext of wishing to be frank,
told me that Grant Allen had said it was a pity I had taken a
notion into my head that men of science were in a conspiracy
against me. I do not see what warrant Grant Allen has for
saying this. I am not aware of thinking that men of science
generally are in a conspiracy against me ; I am aware of thinking
that they very seldom mention my name, and more or less regret
this because it injures the sale of my books ; but I have not the
faintest idea that there is any greater conspiracy against me than
there always is on the part of orthodoxy against unorthodoxy.
     Grant Allen will hardly deny that he himself, Romanes, Ray
Lankester, and a good many others have given me proof that they
dislike my work, notwithstanding the fact that (according to me)
they help themselves to it pretty freely. On the other hand I
have given them proof, and hope that I may from time to time
continue to do so, that I dislike their work. My impression is
that I dislike them quite as much as they me, and though I do
not for a moment believe men of science to be in a conspiracy
against myself, I am quite ready to admit that I am in a conspiracy
of one against men of science in general, with an extra slouch of
the hat for Mr. Grant Allen in particular. It was because Clodd
told me of Grant Allen's having said this, that I told him I did
not like Grant Allen or his work when I met Clodd at Webster's.
[July 1885.]
     VOL. I                                                2 E

       41 8                      BELOW PAR                             XXII
 1884        Miss Savage wrote to Butler on 24th June 1884a letter
A«. 48 wnich concludes thus : " How is the novel going on ? It
       ought not to be going on at all as you are not well, but I
       am much afraid you will never really rest yourself." On
       this, exactly five months before his death, Butler made the
       following note :
           I may here say that it was not work that was keeping me so
       continually below par. It was Pauli, my people, and the grave,
       perpetually increasing anxiety about money and my complete
       failure to do anything that would sell. These were the things
       that made me always on the point of breaking down. When the
       money anxiety was removed by the death of my father [Dec.
       1886] at a time when ruin was staring me in the face, I picked up
       in three or four months. I often grieve to think that the last few
       years of Miss Savage's life were those of my own deepest depression.
       Oh how J wish that she were living now, and could see what I
       have done in the last few years ! [S. B., Jan. 18th, 1902].


-.'...<¦ ¦ -.
              Ij KrUfford'j .Jn4h

              J8'4-
                           ir ar
                            1tz*
             iky.        ing to
         1ter Ital          1t u1
               in                 and
            the                      from
        ^K poor m                sapprovt
                                  first, bi
   1                t she had beerf to
     than                      d al¦o
10 and they got along famot
  ^^Hes and a gc                 used to
          it was                       e of the
             vas Mrs. Bl<              Moore, an Al
          o one knew who her g1.
              vhom we knew
           he gentleman was an English
               .

' T* ."
        v .<:jV..*^Vt.
           •sv. » —       - - —•
            -,•<- ^ -
                               •i
                       -
                   '¦ "*.
                  .*-'{--

                   CHAPTER XXIII
                 1884—Part II.  1885—Part I.
          GAFOTTES, MINUETS, FUGUES, ETC.
In August 1884, my mother and sisters were at Caspar 1884
Badrutt's Hotel at St. Moritz, and I went to them for Aet. 4*
part of my holiday. Owing to the cholera no one was
allowed to enter Italy without undergoing quarantine, so
Buder remained in Switzerland and presently joined us,
coming over the Bernina Pass from Le Prese and
Poschiavo. My poor mother disapproved of Butler and
matters were a little strained at first, but in the evening
he came up to her sitting-room by invitation and did his
best. He knew that she had been to school at Miss
Stone's at Blackheath, and when he told her that his elder
sister, Mrs. Bridges, who was only five or six years
younger than my mother, had also been to school at
Miss Stone's, my mother collapsed like the walls of
Jericho and they got along famously for the rest of the
evening.
     Two ladies and a gentleman used to dine at the next
table to us ; it was known that one of the ladies, who
was the hostess, was Mrs. Bloomfield Moore, an American
poetess, but no one knew who her guests were. At last
an English lady whom we knew ascertained from Caspar
Badrutt that the gentleman was an English poet. We
none of us had an extensive acquaintance among pro
fessional poets, but I had seen photographs of most of
the English ones in shop windows, and diagnosed
Browning. The English lady would not have it :
                            419

        420       RISTORI AND HARRY NICHOLLS                    xxm
  1884       " No," she said, " Mr. Browning has a far grander
Aet. 48 head and is altogether a finer-looking man."
             But it turned out to be Browning, and the other
        guest was his sister.       The English lady made the
        acquaintance of the American poetess who lent her a
        volume of her works, and we had the advantage of
        perusing it. One of the press notices quoted at the end
        of the book said, " They are nearly as good as the poems
        of Mrs. Hemans." Butler said that the criticism might
        be just but, excepting " Casabianca," he had forgotten
        all he had ever known of the poems of Mrs. Hemans.
         He was reminded of her when writing the Life of Dr.
         Butler by finding a letter from her to his grandfather,
        which he reproduced in his book (I. 341). If I remember
        right, her son was at school at Shrewsbury. Butler was
         naturally interested in sampling poetry composed by a
         friend of Browning, but we did not find much in her
        book in the style of " Casabianca." This poetess was too
         apt to have " a graveyard heart " and her spirit was " ever
        on the wing." One poem was about a king who had
        placed the roses in his garden under the care of the
        authoress who, when the pilgrim came and wanted them,
        said, " Take the lilies, take the lilacs, take, in effect,
        everything except the roses " ; so the pilgrim ravished
        a rose, contrary to instructions, and the serpent came out.
        I have forgotten the moral, but there was one.
             Ristori also was at St. Moritz—" a nice, kind, good
        face," said Butler—and we remembered how we had seen
        her at Drury Lane as Queen Elizabeth, and how in her
        magnificent manner she had asked her secretary :
             " What have you there ? "
            And the secretary, who was Harry Nicholls, made the
        whole house laugh by replying :
             " Mary Stuart's death-warrant, Your Majesty."
            We laughed because we recognised his voice, and it
        reminded us of the last time we had seen him, when he was
        the mother of Sindbad the Sailor, shipwrecked on a desert
       island in a pantomime, and we had heard him exclaim :
            " Oh ! I could do with a kidney now, just to stay
       my stomach till we get back to Europe."

 xx111                      PARROTS                           421
       It was not fair to cast him for the part, but the 1884.
 majesty of Ristori triumphed over the absurdity.                 Aet. 48
       Butler went by the Maloja pass down to Promontogno,
 in the Val Bregaglia, and remained some time there, and
 at Soglio where our friends Miss Bertha Thomas and
 Miss Helen Zimmern were staying. I came down and
 spent a couple of days with him. At Promontogno we
 met the lady who kept the parrots in " Ramblings in
 Cheapside " {Essays on Life, Art, and Science, 1904; re
 issued in The Humour of Homer and other Essays, 19 13).
 These parrots were well known to English tourists in the
 neighbourhood of the Italian lakes. There were fifteen or
 sixteen of them, and they were fond of tea. There was
 a story that once, at Cadenabbia, their owners went for
 an excursion for the day, taking with them the key of
 their room in which they had locked the parrots. They
 did not return till late, having missed the steamer. At
 4.30 the waiter heard .the bell ring, went up to their
 room and found the door locked ; he went downstairs
 thinking he must have made a mistake, but in a few
 minutes the bell rang again, and again the waiter found
the door locked. This appeared to him so mysterious
that he got a ladder, climbed up to the window, and
looked in. As soon as the parrots saw him they
exclaimed : " Bring tea, if you please."
                     Butler to Miss Savage.
     22 Sep. 1884—I got back on Saturday evening, better
decidedly for my outing, but I have done a great many sketches
and should be better still if I had not done so many ; still I am
feeling better a good deal and shall take it easy now that I am
back. My people are all extremely well, thank you. The
summer has been a very favourable one for them. How are
your people ? My cat is better, and though he looks old and
battered is not otherwise amiss. I am extremely sorry to hear
of your bereavement. Shall you cat again ? . . . May I say of
myself somewhere that I am like the precious oil of gladness with
which somebody anointed someone above his fellows, inasmuch
as I am certainly " without money," but unlike it inasmuch as
I am not " without price," being saleable, if anyone would buy

        422                            SOCKS                           xxm
  1884 me, at a very reasonable figure—but the passage I am referring
Aet. 48 to is in the Bible and you won't know it.
            Come and see me next week. I am busy I think every day
        with one thing or another.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
            27 Sept. 1884—I will come and see you any day next week
        except Monday. Why do you do so many sketches ? You
        should take care of yourself and let your sketches take care of
        themselves. This I say for conscience' sake, not because I
        imagine that you will take my advice—you never do, else I
        might suggest that, as " you have your price " and are ready to
        be sold, you might go over to the Darwins ; for a consideration
        you might write a book—a Memoir of the late Mr. Darwin—
        which should satisfy them and yourself, too, k la Fair Haven.
        By the by, apropos of Darwin, did you know that Diderot was
        an evolutionist ? If you did, why have you never mentioned
        him f I have found in Diderot most curious things and I think
        you should look him up. More when I see you.
                               Butler to Miss Savage.
             28 Sep. 1884—Let us say that on Wednesday afternoon you
        do me the pleasure of a visit.
             Thank you about Diderot. I know nothing about him but,
        being a post-Buffonian writer, it is no great wonder that he
        accepted evolution. Any pre-Buffbnian evolutionist would con
        cern me more nearly ; of course, if he has anything about memory
        and continued personality I ought to know. I will get the books
        for which you have so kindly written me a ticket and see.
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
             23 October 1884—With this letter I send a little present for
        you. I have lately developed an extraordinary talent for knitting
        stockings, and I was so enchanted with the success of the first
        one I made that I immediately began to wear it, regardless of the
        fact that it was of a lightish blue in colour and my other stocking
        was black. You should be thankful that I have not required you
        to do likewise. I can knit much better now, and I mean always
        to make your stockings for the future. The next pair are to be
        thicker and softer and looser in texture. These are very harsh
        and unelastic. I shall not, however, begin them till I have heard
        how these do.' If they don't fit (and I daresay they won't) you

XXIII                     MORE SOCKS                               423
can give them to Mr. Jones with my kind regards. If you think 1884
it would be more polite you can say that I made them on purpose Aet. 48
for him. If he does not have them, you can give them to any
body you please, without my kind regards s'entend, to Mrs.
Doncaster's husband, or to your father, if you like. You can
tell him (your father) that they are a tribute of respect from an
admirer of your literary genius, which is exactly the truth. Popular
authors, curates, etc. are always receiving these little attentions.
I am told that Mr. Irving is deluged with knitted knee-caps
from his female admirers, it being only too evident which of his
articulations stands especially in need of comfort. You will be
pleased to hear that these socks were made entirely on the Sabbath.
On Sunday afternoons I retired into my closet and shut the door
(as we are told to do in the Bible) and knitted, so that they
represent a religious service and are sanctified. I think you had
better let me have an old sock that fits you as a pattern to do the
next by.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     24 Oct. 1884—Thank you very much for your magnificent
present. I will write and thank you more particularly by this
evening's post, by which time I may perhaps have been able to
hit upon words adequate to express my gratitude.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
                                                      24 October 1884.
     Dear M1ss Savage—Now I have tried your socks on and I
do not quite know whether they fit me or not. They are long
enough in the foot—well, just long enough now, but I shall wear
them through at the toe after they have been washed if they get
smaller. But the main difficulty is in getting them on, I mean
in getting them to come round the heel and up the calf. They
were beautiful when once on, and I do not doubt will give and
stretch with wear ; however, we shall see. As for doing me any
more, I flatly forbid it. I believe you don't like my books, and
want to make me say I won't give you any more if you make me
any more socks ; and then you will make me some more in order
not to get the books. No, I will let you read my stupid books
in manuscript and help me that way. If you like to make me a
kettle-holder, you may, for I only have one just now, and I like
to have two because I always mislay one ; but I won't have
people working their fingers out to knit me stockings. This one
pair I accept gratefully, and if it does not wear right I will get

        424         PAINTING AT WESTMINSTER                           xxm
  1884 you to enlarge it a little at the top, if it can be enlarged. You
Aet. 48 shall hear from me again later on.
             I have announced Jones's and my Album of short pianoforte
        pieces and our cantata in this week's Athenaeum. I said the
        subject of the libretto was some shepherds and shepherdesses who
        had lost their money through imprudent speculations on the Stock
        Exchange, and then went on to say that the music was in the
        style of Handel. The editor has cut out the bit about the libretto,
        presumably as too much savouring of levity, and left me announ
        cing a cantata in the style of Handel, which is rather a stronger
        measure than I like, but it doesn't matter.
             Also I sold my picture of Dean's Yard, Westminster, the
        other day (the little one I did a year and a half ago) for f1o to
        Dunthorne and Walker, the etching publishers in Vigo Street,
        and they are going to have it etched and it will be in the shop-
        windows. So I am painting again, and mean to do an etching
        myself. They gave me my price at once and seemed glad to get
        the picture. I am therefore painting at Westminster again and
        getting on fairly well. I think I shall catch a master or two
        with something, now I can tell them I sold the other ; they all
        say they wanted it now, or, at any rate, some of them do.
             I looked through Diderot and made a dozen pages of extracts
        and notes on the later work of the two books to which you
        referred me which was written in 1775. In one or two places
        he does come rather near Life and Habit, but only on the surface.
        I have done him very carefully, and he certainly does not come so
        close as Erasmus Darwin does, and of course nothing like so close
        as Hering. Still, he says so many fine things that I was very
         glad to have been referred to him and to make extracts from him.
         The earlier work, written in 1754, I have only glanced at as yet
        and shall not be able to do more for some time, as painting and
         the cantata take all my brains and more.
       \My father has been ill again—with a heavy cold which does not
         leave him and he will go out. He is better but he has no idea of
         taking the care of himself that he ought to take, and is afraid of
         coddling himself. How is your Mamma ? Again thank vou
         very much for the socks, and Believe me, yours very truly,
                                                              S. Butler.
                               Miss Savage to Butler.
              27 Oct. 1884—Here is a kettle-holder. And I can only say
         that a man who is equal to the control of two kettle-holders fills
         me with awe, and I shall begin to be afraid of you. The vagaries
         of one drive me nearly mad—two would send me straight into a
         Lunatic Asylum. Apropos of L. Asylums Mrs. Lowe, fired by

xxm               THE KETTLE-HOLDER                             425
the noble example of Mrs. Weldon, is going to bring an action 1884
for restitution against her poor old husband. She has brought an Aet. 48
action for assault against her eldest son. I persuaded her not to
bring an action for assault against him some time ago. This is
another. However, I know no particulars as she keeps out of my
way. The closing of our club was a great misfortune for Mrs.
Lowe. We exercised a great restraining influence over her—
indeed she gave me as much trouble as a kettle-holder. I am
delighted to hear about the etching. I remember the beautiful
drawing perfectly and shall be anxiously looking into the shops to
see it appear. They will be more delightful than ever now there
is a chance of seeing you in them. I saw the stately announce
ment in The Athenaeum [i.e. of Jones's and my Gavottes, etc. and
of Narcissus.—S. B.]. I am sure the Album will be a great success.
It ought to be at all events.
    The kettle-holder is very clumsy and ugly, but please to
remember that I am not a many-sided genius, and to expect me
to excel in kettle-holders and stockings is unreasonable. I take
credit to myself, however, for affixing a fetter to it, so that you
may chain it up if it is too much disposed to wander. My
expectation is that it is too thick for you to grasp the kettle
with, and the kettle will slip out of your hand and scald you
frightfully. I shall be sorry for you, but you would have it, so
upon your own head be it.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
     28 Oct. 1884—The kettle-holder is beautiful—it is like a
filleted sole, and I am very fond of filleted sole. It is not at all
too thick and fits my kettle to perfection. I have been lifting
my kettle on and off the fire with it and then hanging the
kettle-holder on its nail again all day—ever since I got it this
morning, and I like it better and better continually—only you
never made it. You bought it at a bazaar and that little touch
about the affixing a fetter to it is just like one of my own lies—
very circumstantial, and like where the subject comes in again in
a chorus, as a counterpoint to some other subject, as though it
were quite an accident, when all the time it was tried on another
piece of paper beforehand to see whether it would or no. You
hadn't time to think it all out and invent so much and do all
that work since you got my letter. I won't say that I don't
think you could have done the knitting, because you can do any
thing you like—still, I don't believe you did do it.
     I am wearing the socks. They fit very well and come on
and off quite easily — still, when the toes begin to wear out,
which perhaps they won't, I will get you to add a little to the

        426              MISS SAVAGE'S TRUTH                             zzm
  1884 length, and will carefully keep the wool you sent against this
Aet. 48 contingency. I have lost my spectacles and have used my eyes
        as much as I can without them to-day already. I think I know
        where I left them, so rub on without them till I can go and see ;
        therefore I will add no more. I heard from Miss Johnson this
        very day. She wants me to go and stay with her at Leigh.
        I can't go.
             P.S.—If you did knit that kettle-holder I shall think you
        even cleverer than I did before. If you did not knit it I shall
        think that you are just as clever as I have always thought you.
              This kettle-holder is shown in the illustration which
        faces chap- xxxix. It is now in my possession.
              He had lost his spectacles sketching the old houses at
        Westminster ; he returned next day and found them
        where he had been sitting, but they were broken and
        " looked as though they had been on the batter all
        night." The picture bought by Dunthorne represented
        Turle's old house in Dean's Yard. It was never etched.
        Mr. Emery Walker, Dunthorne's brother-in-law, bought
        it from Dunthorne after Butler's death, giving him for it
        the amount he had originally paid—£10.                 Butler did
        make some experiments in etching ; Gogin showed him
        what to do, but nothing much came of it.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
                                                        November tst [1884].
             Dear Mr. Butler—No doubt your powers of lying are
        great, but when you assert that my Truth is like your lies you
        considerably over-estimate their value, and some day you will
        get into a scrape from your over-confidence. It is entirely in
        your interests, therefore, that I have procured the enclosed
        affidavits—not on my own account, for my character for veracity
        is spotless. Besides, I never lie with a circumstance ; I have not
        done so for many years, having found the inconvenience, and I
        recommend you to follow my example. Affidavit No. 1 is from
        Miss Johnson's aunt, so you can easily verify her statement ; but
        I have not disclosed your name to either of the ladies—I have
        called you simply "a person." If their testimony does not
        convince you, I can have two more for the asking I daresay. I
        could have three, but one of the witnesses is a man-hater, and
        calls men "vile Creech- Haughs " and "base Monst-Haughs"
        and she would triumph over me too much, because I take the

XXI11                   "LIKE WHERE"                               427
part of the poor men, and she would say, "Now you have 1884
discovered the wickedness of men," and she would call you a Aet. 48
villain^ which I should not like.
     Like many, perhaps I should say most, of the members of
the Somerville Club, she does not like her husband, and the very
first time I saw her she told me of his iniquities with details
that are usually suppressed. There were many details and every
time I have seen her since she has added more, till I begin to
suspect that she sometimes borrows details from other people's
husbands. In conclusion I can only say that if you repent you
may have the forgiveness of Yours truly,         „ ..
                                                 E. M. A. Savage.
      P.S.—I daresay your accusation against me was only brought
in in order to give you a pretext for exercising your contrapuntal
illustration, and I can only say that it will want a good deal
more exercising before it can appear in public. You say the
touch about the fetter is like where the subject comes in again.
How can it be like " where " ? What is " where " ? Where is
" where" ? Please to improve it before airing it again.
      [I need hardly say that the kettle-holder hangs by its fetter
on the wall beside my fire, and is not allowed to be used by any
one but myself.—S. B., January 21, 1902.]
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
                                               *          3 Nov. 1884.
      Dear M1ss Savage—What penance shall I perform ? I
 know you are above trampling on a fallen man—I should have
 said worm—you don't like to hurt my feelings—you don't wish to
 be like my sisters — There ! I know that no member of the
 Somerville Club would forge a certificate (that is more correct,
 is it not ?) and, even if I didn't, if you tell me that you wish me
 to say I believe you really did make the kettle-holder, that is
quite enough. I do believe firmly that you made that kettle-
holder — I know it — my profoundest apologies — my diffusest
 thanks — and my expression of enhanced admiration for your
 great and versatile powers.
      Please forgive me if I don't write more, as I am working at a
chorus [for Narcissus] which interests me very much, and I want
 to set a bit straight before I go up to Jones's. The words are :
                   O Speculation ! horrid fiend,
                     Full well we know thee now,
                   The mask that erst thy features screened
                     Has fallen from thy brow.
      Believe me, Yours very truly,                      S. Butler.

        428                 MISS SAVAGE'S DUET                            m..
                              Butler to Miss Savage.
  1884       12 November 1884—You can do anything. Please write me
Aet. 48 a nice {juet (I mean the words) for my cantata—that is to say tor
        our cantata. Will you write all the rest of the words for us ?
        Shall I send you what we have done ?
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
            13 Nov. 1884— I should very much like to have all your
        libretto to read, and if, in order to have it, it is necessary to say I
        will write a duet for you, why I will say so. Between friends
        such as you and me, what is one little lie more or less ? But you
        know I can't write verse, though I can make kettle-holders.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
            18 Nov. 1884—1 return the libretto with a great many
        thanks. It is delightful, and as the music I have heard is also
        delightful the next thing to wish for is a performance of it. Are
        there singers who will be able to render its peculiar humour J. I
        think I like Amaryllis's last song the best—no, the introduction
        to the second part and the messenger's good advice in the first ;
        but they are all so nice it is not easy to have a preference.
                              Miss Savage to Butler.
            18 Nov. 1884—After several sleepless nights and catching a
        dreadful cold in my head I have written a duet for you which I
        enclose. [There was no duet enclosed.] It is not good enough
        for a composer who imitates Handel, but it may do for one who
        imitates—Macfarren, we will say. If you know any such, you
        can give it to him.
            I hope you are better and are resting as much as you can.
        How is your dear cat ? Mine is so stupid. She does not even
        know how to catch rats and mice. Our servant says she catches
        them by the tail, instead of at the back of the neck. What is to
        be done with her ?
            P.S.—What do you think I am being bothered about now ?
        A Concert for Christian Young Women. A young friend of mine
        who plays very nicely is the pianist and she has come to me
        to beseech me to try and get a violinist. Sir Andrew and

  xx111           MR. AND MRS. CARLYLE                          429
   Lady Clark are the promoters of the concert; he is a man I 1884
  don't like, for he might have killed Mr. Gladstone a dozen times Aet. 48
  over, and has not ; I can't hold him in any respect. [He was
  Mr. Gladstone's physician.]
      I have been reading the Queen's book. There are here and
  there some nice bits in it ; here is one. She is visiting at the
  Duke of Argyle's and goes into a room where, years ago, she had
  seen the Marquis of Lome as a child.
      " And now," she says, " I return to it, alas ! without my
  beloved husband, to find Lome my son-in-law ! "
      The unexpectedness of the blow must make it so much the
  worse to bear.
.     Are you not glad that Mr. and Mrs. Carlyle were married
f to one another and not to other people ? They certainly were
  justly formed to meet by nature. I was provoked last night by
  the nonsense some people were talking about him, and, as they
  went on to excuse his bad temper on account of his bad diges
  tion, I said that probably his bad digestion should be excused on
  account of his bad temper, as probably he had been born with
  a bad temper, but that bad digestions were generally made (I
  remember Erewhon you see).
      I did not mean to say anything against the Queen. She is a
  person absolutely without affectation. I was induced to read her
  book from reading extracts from it in the Paris Figaro ; but there
  is some difference between the French of a practised writer in the
  Figaro and the English of the poor Queen.
                        Butler to Miss Savage.
      21 Nov. 1884—Where is that duet ? It never came—neither
  with your note nor with my MS., and Jones and I are pining for
  it. Yes, it was very good of God to let Carlyle and Mrs. Carlyle
  marry one another and so make only two people miserable instead
  of four, besides being very amusing. My cat has disappeared this
  two days. He has disappeared before now, but rarely for so long,
  and I am getting anxious about him. . . .
      Don't offer me your cat. If my cat does not come back I
  don't mean to have a cat for some time. Jones has a real little
  love of a cat, and when my mice get bad I will fetch it down
  here for a day or two.
      Where is that duet ?
       My brother Edward was born in 1859. He matured
  mentally earlier than I did, so that the difference of eight
  years in our ages did not prevent our being intimate

        430               EDWARD JAMES JONES                              »,..
  1884 friends and companions. He often joined us in our
Aet. 48 Sunday walks, and Butler had a high opinion of him.
         His interests were scientific ; he passed through the School
        of Mines, studied at Wiesbaden, Zurich, and Wurzburg,
        and in November 1880 obtained an appointment on the
        Geological Survey of India. He died at Darjeeling in
         1889.
              In 1884 he was in India, and Butler wrote him a long
        letter from which I give extracts. The principal omission
        I have made is an account of Butler's joining my family
        in the Engadine in the preceding August, and this I have
        used to refresh my memory in writing the opening of this
        chapter.
                          Butler to Edward James Jones.
                                                     15 Cl1fford's Inn, E.C.
                                                          Nov. 6th, 1884.
             Dear Ted—At last I write, and I have been meaning to do
        so for a long time, but I am not what I used to be. Whether
        work or worry or increasing years is the chief offender, or whether
        it is all three combined I do not know, but I don't feel up to
        much ; my eyes are heavy and tire with very little. I get bad
        noises in my head on falling asleep if I do more than a very
        moderate amount of work ; altogether I am low, and though, if
        the luck were to turn, I should, I believe, get right again before
        very long, the luck- is a long while in turning, and, in the mean
        time, I am keeping quiet and avoiding all writing that I can. I
        expect this music which I and your brother are doing has a good
        deal to do with it. I am rather old to start in a new line, and I
        daresay when this becomes less of a strain I shall feel better, but
        the great remedy I want is one prescribed by homoeopathists,
        " aurum "—only I want it in larger doses. . . .
             In Unconscious Memory I said that we should start with
        life, not death, as we could never smuggle life in if we started
        without it. This was badly put, for we can no more smuggle
        death in than life, if we start without it. We must start with
        matter eternally both alive and dead at the same time. This will
        be very nice, will it not ? We must see life and death as we see
        heat and cold, never either of them absolute, but in the highest
        life still some death, and in the lowest death still some life. The
        greatest heat and cold we know of can always be imagined as
        becoming a little hotter and colder, which means that there is a
        little cold even in the highest heat we can deal with. There is

 xx111                LIFE AND DEATH                             431
 no such thing as cither perfect life or perfect death. And the 1884
 personal identity between the dying man and the corpse is quite as Aet. 48
 close as that between the embryo at a day old and the same
 embryo at three months. True, there is a great change, but
 every change is pro tanto a death, and death is only a very
 big change after which we change our ways of looking
 at things so completely that the new life has no more in
 common with the old than our present has with our embryonic.
 The change is, indeed, more sudden than most other changes ;
 but it is neither so sudden nor so complete as to admit of no sub
 division whatever, and, if so, there is gradation, and the con
tinuation of identity between life and death (I mean between
the dying man and the corpse) goes on all fours with all other
changes ; so that you must either deny personal identity, as we
are accustomed to think of it, or else in the end deny, not death
in a modified sense, but certainly death as the end of the
individual. Strictly speaking, the individual is born and dies from
moment to moment ; that is to say, he is never an individual at
all except during the present moment—which present moment
has no logical existence, but lives on the sufferance of times past
and present. Any change is a kind of death, and this is why it is
so rude of our friends to notice changes in us.
     That life is closely connected with memory may be seen in
the fact that death is so closely connected with forgetfulness.
Hence the ancients called their river of death Lethe, the River
of Forgetfulness.
     Also we know the closeness of the analogy between growth,
the repair of wasted tissues, and reproduction ; they are only
phases of the same thing. It is curious that this analogy extends
to the mental condition which precedes both eating and the act of
generation ; in each case there is an appetite—a strong desire to
unify some foreign body with ourselves as closely as possible.
Love involves an effort after identifying something with ourselves,
which ends either in assimilation, by eating, or in connection and
reproduction and, consequently, in assimilation after all. Even
the desire to pat a horse or dog is a pro tanto effort after physical
unification. When we love we desire to draw what we love as
closely to us as we can ; when we hate we push what we hate
away as far as we can. All affinity is a mode of loving, all
dissolution a mode of hating. It is curious that we use the same
words for the appetite of eating and for that of reproduction. We
say we love roast beef and we should like to have roast beef. The
residuous parts are also analogous in eating and reproduction—in
the one case, faeces ; in the other, afterbirth.
     Also unity and separateness are a puzzle. When is " a thing "
a thing at all ? If you go down to your atoms and get them quite

        432             MEMORY AND MISTAKES                            xxm
  1884 separate, without a particle of unity with anything else, you can
Aet. 48 never afterwards get them to join with any other atom ; again, if
         you once get them perfectly united you can never disjoin them.
         In the most complete isolation there must be still a little union
        and linking on to something else. In the most complete union
        there must lurk a germ of disunion—as with heat and cold and
        life and death. It is only by looking at it thus that we can see
        the universe either as one thing or as a number of things, and this
        is how we have got to see it.
             There ! so much for the present. I met an nice Italian boy
        this summer who talked English.            He said he liked English
        literature very much ; but the thing which pleased him most
        was—
                             Hey diddle diddle,
                             The cat and the fiddle,
                             The cow jumped over the moon.
        They had nothing in Italian literature so good as this.
             By the way—mind and matter ; we say an opinion touches us.
        When Shakespeare said, "We are such stuff as dreams are made
        on," I suspect he was about right. Mind and matter, too, are
        like heat and cold.
             Mrs. Boss has a friend, a certain Mrs. Willie. The other day
        she said :
            " Willie, you've had three husbands, you ought to know the in's
        and out's of everything ; you've tackled three men. I've no
        patience with you ; you've been and sold your bed over in the
        Blackfriars Road for three shillings."
             As for memory and mistakes—mistakes occur mainly in two
        ways.      One, when the circumstances have changed, but not
        enough to make us recognise the fact (either through want of
        attention, or the hidden nature of the alteration, or through the
        importance of the alteration depending on relations which have
        escaped us, and which make an alteration, slight in itself, preg
        nant with much difference), and the memory reverts to the old
        circumstances unmodified, being carried away by the number of
        the associated ideas that present themselves, and assuming the
        remainder ; and hence follows a want of harmony between action
        and circumstances, which gives trouble.
             Secondly, mistakes occur through the memory not returning
        in full force though the circumstances are unchanged. But in
        either case it is the memory that is at fault.
             I have no doubt I have written a great deal of rot in this
        letter, but I can't read it over again.
             Your brother is pretty well now. We are very much in
        terested in the music we are writing. It is very funny. If I can
       live and work a few years longer, I expect "I shall write a good

nu1                 ALFRED TYLOR'S PAPER                                        433
deal of music henceforward. My father hangs on ; he never has 1884
fully recovered from his illness of a year ago, but he is not actively Aet. 49
ill just now. Your brother went to church the other day, and
the psalm was " The Lord is King, the earth may be glad thereof:
yea, the multitude of the isles may be glad thereof." I was so
angry that I had not seen this myself, but I don't think as much
about the Psalms as perhaps I ought.
    Take great care of yourself. vVe think a lot of you and about
you, and shall be very glad to have you back.—Believe me, very
truly yours,                                                       S. Butler.
     The reader may remember that the substance of part
of this letter is reproduced in The Note-Books of Samuel
Butler (19 12). He will also perhaps remember, in the
Note-Books, Silvio, the Italian boy at Soglio, who took
such an intelligent interest in English literature. He will
also recognise Mrs. Boss. I do not know, but I have a
fancy that this Mrs. Willie was the old woman who lodged
across the river, in the Old Kent Road, and was the only
person living who knew Boss's age.
      Mr. Tylor was to read a paper on the 4th December
1884 before the Linnean Society "On the Growth of
Trees and Protoplasmic Continuity," 1 and this paper was
to embody the results of his experiments at Carshalton.
He asked Butler to speak in the discussion which was
expected to follow. Buder, of course, agreed, and they
talked over what he was to say. Mr. Tylor was un
fortunately too ill to be present, and the paper was to be
read by his friend, Mr. Sydney B. J. Skertchley. Butler
took me with him to the meeting, and the following
account of it is condensed from a note he made and from
a letter to his father.
                        At the L1nnean Soc1ety
     In the Lecture Room we found Skertchley, and on the daTs
sat Carruthers, the chairman, with Romanes, the zoological
secretary, and Jackson, the botanical secretary, on his left and
right hands respectively. Instead of letting Mr. Tylor have the
whole evening, the proceedings began with some dry remarks by
Mr. Thiselton Dyer. I did not understand, nor want to under-
      1 It was published under the same title in book form by Stanford in 1886.
     VOL. I                                                               2 F

        434           AT THE LINNEAN SOCIETY                             xxm
  1884 stand them, and they tired people, for they were dull and delivered
Aet. 49 in a dull way. Then followed a Dr. Day who read a paper
        about the distribution of fishes in India, very dull indeed and
        tiring. When he had done he rolled up his paper and put his
        hand impressively upon the table, saying :
             "And this, sir, is my Redistribution Bill."
             Which was a joke, for the Redistribution Bill was then
        before Parliament. A discussion followed, not long, but enough
        to help to tire.
             Then, at last, part of Tylor's paper was read, by the botanical
        secretary—not by Skertchley, for this was at the last moment
        refused ; and moreover only the part dealing with the growth or
        trees was read—all about protoplasmic continuity in the new wood
        of trees and throughout the cellular tissue of plants was cut out
        as being too speculative for the Linnean Society, which cannot
        even look through a microscope and say what it sees till some
        years after outsiders have told it what it ought to see—so that
        all the backbone was taken out of the paper ; and so little was
        read that it took only seven minutes whereas it should have
        lasted an hour. Skertchley exhibited the illustrations with the
        magic lantern, wasting no time or words, and doing everything
        that could be done very well, but the audience were un
        sympathetic.
             Tylor wanted me to be the first, or among the first, to speak
        in the discussion, because speakers are apt to follow suit, and if
        one begins to object another follows. So as soon as the paper
        was done I got up and said the little I had arranged to say which
        was mainly what I said in Alps and Sanctuaries (close of chapter
        xiii.) about the reason why life split up into the two great divisions
        of animals and vegetables.
             I suppose I spoke for about six minutes, introducing as much
        of the omitted protoplasmic continuity as time would allow and,
        of course, ascribing it all to Tylor. Soon after I had begun to
        speak Jackson whispered to Skertchley :
             "Who is this?"
             Skertchley wrote on a slip of paper, "S. Butler: Life and
        Habit." Jackson said :
             " Oh, good Lord ! my poor fellow-secretary ! " and nothing
        more except a little laugh and a look at his fellow-secretary as
        much as to say, " Won't Romanes be furious ! "
             After I had done, someone made a few remarks about John
        Hunter, but there was no discussion. Then Salter, the dentist
        (that was), who is a Fellow of the Royal Society and of the
        Linnean also, came up and said to me :
             " Every word you said was absolutely true, but you must not
        expect people here to pay attention to it."

xx111            TYLOR'S EXPERIMENTS                           435
    Also Seebohm, the birds' egg man, who is a member of the 1884
Council of the Linnean Society, came up, introduced himself Aet. 49
and said he had been much interested and would like to hear
more. He had already made advances to me through a third
person on the score of Life and Habit. He asked me to dinner,
and I was very glad to accept the invitation.
    Then I went down to Carshalton to see Mr. Tylor who, I
am afraid there is no doubt, is dying, but he wished to see me
and to hear about the meeting. He is cut up because they
burked him and, indeed, they did not use him fairly. However,
I said for him the very thing they omitted from his paper, and
did the very thing which Romanes was most anxious should not
be done.
                      Butler to Miss Savage.
    1\th December 1884—I think it was rather fun         my going
to the Linnean and propounding to them a theory of       the reason
why life split itself up into animal and vegetable. .     . . There
was a little notice of Tylor's lecture written by me in  The Times
of yesterday week. Tylor asked me to write and so        I did, and
he sent it to The Times man himself.
     From Butler's notice of Tylor s paper in The Times,
                       6th December 1884.
    Mr. Tylor's chief object was to show the principles that
underlie the individuality of plants, and to prove that plants have
a dim sort of intelligence and are not merely an aggregation of
tissues responsive to the direct influence of light. Not only this,
but that the tree, as a whole, knows more than its branches, just
as the species knows more than the individual, and the community
than the unit. The result of Mr. Tylor's experiments, which
have extended over many years, has been to show that many
plants and trees can adapt themselves to unfamiliar circumstances,
such as avoiding obstacles artificially placed in their way by
bending aside before touching, or by altering the leaf arrange
ments, so that at least as much voluntary power must be accorded
to such plants as to certain lowly organised animals. Finally,
Mr. Tylor contends that a connecting system, by means of
which combined movements take place, is to be found in the
threads of protoplasm which unite the various cells, and that this
connecting system is found even in the new wood of trees. He
has also observed that the new wood of nearly all trees points
upward but that year after year it changes its direction, showing
much mobility.

      436                       DRAIN-PIPES                            kh1
1884        Butler went to dinner at Mr. Seebohm's where he met
   49 Skertchley, who told them about a rat-trap invented by
      Mr. Tylor's coachman.
                              Dunkett's Rat-trap
           Mr. Dunkett found all his traps fail one after another, and
      was in such despair at the way the corn got eaten that he resolved
      to invent a rat-trap. He began by putting himself as nearly as
      possible in the rat's place.
           "Is there anything," he asked himself, "in which, if I were
      a rat, I should have such complete confidence that I could not
      suspect it without suspecting everything in the world and being
      unable henceforth to move fearlessly in any direction ? "
           He pondered for a while and had no answer, till one night
      the room seemed to become full of light and he heard a voice
      from heaven saying :
           " Drain-pipes."
          Then he saw his way. To suspect a common drain-pipe
      would be to cease to be a rat. Here Skertchley enlarged a little,
      explaining that a spring was to be concealed inside, but that the
      pipe was to be open at both ends ; if the pipe were closed at one
      end, a rat would naturally not like going into it, for he would not
      feel sure of being able to get out again ; on which I interrupted
      and said :
          " Ah, it was just this which stopped me from going into the
      Church."
           When he told me this I knew what was in his mind,
      and that, if he had not been in such respectable company,
      he would have said : " It was just this which stopped me
      from getting married."
                            Miss Savage to Butler.
                                   (Postcard).
                                                    21 Beaumont Street.
                                                  Monday, Dec. 151A, 1884.
           I write to inform you that I have made twelve kettle-holders
      for the Christian Young Women, and they are to be sold at
      their Bazaar tomorrow, Wednesday, and Thursday. I am not
      vindictive, but I wish you to know that I have made twelve
      Christian kettle-holders to be cast loose on society, like the twelve
      Apostles.

xx111                        MADOX BROWN                                           437
                             Butler to Miss Butler.
      20 Dec. 1884—I have just come back from an At Home at 1884
the William Rossettis. I did not know them, but Mrs. Rossetti Aet. 49
sent me an invitation and said her father, Madox Brown (the
painter), would be there and would much like to see me. I used
to know the Madox Browns, but found that, if they gave me a
bun at all, they wanted me to climb my pole too much and too
often before they would let me have it, and it was not a good bun
when it came ; so on my return from America I did not call, but
let the acquaintance drop. In the meantime Oliver Madox
Brown had died, and I was supposed not to be so sorry as I
ought to have been, the fact being that I hardly knew him at all
beyond his calling on me sometimes and reading me his MS.
novels, which bored me very much. I don't mind reading my
own MSS. to people but I don't like being read to, and I did not
like either young Brown or his novels ; besides, as soon as I
began to read any of my MS. he used to go, and, indeed, this was
the only way I had of getting rid of him.1 Perhaps, then, I did
not feel his loss so acutely as I ought to have done.
      However, two years or so ago old Madox Brown, the father,
wrote me a letter asking if I had any letters of his son's as they
wanted them for a biography. I don't know whether he ever
wrote me a letter or no, at any rate I had none ; but I took the
opportunity to write prettily about the loss literature had sustained,
etc., and the old man wrote me back an answer which showed
that my letter had pleased him, and said something about silent
equivoques. I did not quite understand it, but he spelt the word
with a k (equivokes), and it was rather touching, for I knew he
had been very proud and hopeful about his son. So when Mrs.
Rossetti wrote me thus, I thought I ought to go, and did.
      There was old Madox Brown, and I went up and said how
glad I was to meet him, but he did not respond as I had expected ;
in fact, he snubbed me ; he would not know who I was, and I
had to tell him, and remind him of our correspondence.
      " Oh yes," said he, " I remember there was something but I
forget how it all ended." And his manner was distinctly repellent,
so I immediately left him.
      Either Mrs. Rossetti had never consulted her father about the
matter, or he had had me sent for on purpose to be rude to me—I
should think the former. She probably wanted me to come to her
At Home, and knew that what she said would be an appeal, as it
    1 " Did »he [Penelope] ever read them [the suitors] any of her grandfather's letters ?
Did she sing them her own songs, or play them music of her own composition ? I
have always found these courses successful when I wanted to get rid of people."— The
Authoress of tht Odynrf, chap. V. p. 1 30.

         438          DEATH OF ALFRED TYLOR                            xxm
  1884 were, to my feelings which I should not find it easy to resist, and
•Act. 49 so said it without more ado.
              Then I found myself knowing no one in the room, introduced
         to no one, and accordingly very soon went. Before I did so, I
         had a few words with the painter Rossetti. I said how beautiful
         his pictures were ; in reality I hate them, but I did all as I
         should, and it was accepted as about what I ought to have said.
         There was a portrait of Professor Fawcett on the walls and I,
         referring to it, said something about the loss we had all sustained
         in his recent death. Rossetti did not quite catch that I 'was talk
         ing about Professor Fawcett and immediately turned it on to
         Oliver Madox Brown, so I let it stand thus and listened to a
         sustained panegyric on the great " might have been." Then I
         went away bored and ruffled. I left a card a few days later, but
         did not go in, and have not been asked since.
              They belong to a set from which it is perfectly hopeless for
         me to think I shall get any good—the ultra-aesthetic and cul
         tured people, and I don't mean to follow this up ; the Tylors and
         Mr. Seebohm are their very opposites, and I will cultivate them
         to the best of my power. I saw Mr. Tylor last Sunday at
         Carshalton and Mrs. Tylor says he would like to see me again
         to-morrow, so I shall go. He is sinking fast and I fear cannot
         last long. I am extremely sorry.
              This is from Butler's Note-Book :
                                     Mr. Tylor
              Mr. Tylor died on the 31st December 1884. We knew he
         was dying, and I promised to inscribe my next book to him,
         which seemed to give him great pleasure. Very few people have
         ever taken so warmly and instinctively to me as he did, and his
         death, though clearly enough foreseen, was a great blow to me.
         I remember the last time I saw him he was in bed at Carshalton
         and said, with tears in his eyes :
              " When I heard the wind blowing so hard in the night I said :
         ' It will be a stormy day to-morrow and perhaps he will not
         come ' ; but it is a stormy day and you have come."
               Butler's brother, Thomas, was known to be travelling,
         but nothing had been heard from him for a considerable
         time, and his wife and family had become anxious, when
         news came towards the end of January 1885 that he
         had died in Corsica on the 30th November 1884. This
         entailed additional work for Butler who was one of the
         trustees of his brother's marriage settlement.

 xx.n            DEATH OF MISS SAVAGE                            439
                       Butler to Miss Savage.
                                            15 Cl1fford's Inn, E.C.
                                                  10 Feb. 1885.
      Dear M1ss Savage—How are you ? It is a long time since 188j
 you wrote and it was your turn ; a letter from me crossed a post Aet. 49
 card from you, and I consider that I have been most patient in
 waiting so long before writing to protest against your continued
silence.
      I have lost my brother, so you see some of us do die some
 times. . . . My father remains much in statu quo, but he has
 never recovered the ground he lost last November ; still he gets
driven to church in a fly, and is not acutely ill. How is your
 mamma ?
      I don't write on black edged paper because you would think
that I had become an orphan ; but next time I write you will
know, so I shall use black edged paper.
      I am overworked and low, my neck is full and troublesome,
and this always means that I am doing too much, but then I
have got too much to do. I cannot help it.
     I lost my friend Mr. Tylor at the end of December. Curious !
as soon as I got a really useful friend, able and willing to back
me, he, poor man, as soon as he came " to know me well " " was
sure to die." Those people have died who ought not to have
died, and those people who ought to have died have not died, and
there is no sense of propriety in them.
     The same applies to you, only much more ; for you have ten
times more cause to grumble than I have, and you don't grumble
half so much. Indeed, you don't grumble at all.
     Jones's and my minuets and fugues, etc. will be out next
week ; you must come and fetch your copy. The cantata,
which, by the way, is not a cantata but an oratorio buffo, grows.
I have written two beautiful choruses lately for it, and a sweet
little air.
     My book [Luci or Cunn1ng ?] is going to be my best—at
least I think so, but I find it extremely difficult. No more at
present.—Yours very truly,                             S. Butler.
      To his dismay, Butler received in reply a letter from
a doctor saying that Miss Savage was in St. Mary's
Hospital, where she had undergone an operation ; she
was cheerful and wished him to know that she was going
on well. But on the 23rd February came another letter
telling him that she had died the preceding night.

        44Q             MISS SAVAGE'S FUNERAL                        xi„,
                              Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
  1g8j       24 February 1885—Thank you for your letter received
Aet. 49 yesterday evening. I send a few lines of answer but I received
         such a shock last night that I hardly know how to write. I have
        lost my friend Miss Savage, whom you have often- heard me speak
        of, and no words of mine can express how great this loss is. I did
        not even know that she was ill till a week or so ago I heard that
        she had undergone an operation. I had thought it odd that I
        heard nothing and wrote to enquire, but I was not told that the
        operation was dangerous and now all is over. She died in the
        hospital whither she had been taken from her father's house for
        better treatment.
             When first I came to know her, nearly twenty years ago, she
        was lame and suffering from what I supposed to be hip-disease ;
        the lameness constantly increased and of late I had seen that she
        walked with great difficulty. I have no doubt that the operation
        was in connection with this. I never knew any woman to
        approach her at once for brilliancy and goodness. She was the
        most heroically uncomplaining sufferer I ever met, and the most
        unselfish. It is not that I saw much of her—this I did not—but
        we were in constant communication and, happily, for the last ten
        years I have preserved everything that she wrote—and she wrote
        nothing that was not worth preserving. It is out of the question
        that I can ever replace her. I have it in my power, and am
        thankful to think of this, to leave a memorial of her, traced
        chiefly by her own hand, which will show what manner of
        woman she was ; but it is one which cannot possibly be made
        public till I have long followed her.
             I had rather that you none of you alluded to this letter.
        When I come down next I shall probably speak of her, if I do
        so at all, much as I have always done. But you none of you
        probably had any idea, and indeed cannot possibly have had any
        idea, how much I valued her. For the moment I am incapable of
        thinking of any other subject.
                             M1ss Savage's Funeral
            She was buried on Saturday, February 28th 1885, at
        Finchley, in the cemetery for the parish of Saint Marylebone.
            It was a lovely soft spring afternoon ; during the whole time
       of the funeral the sun was shining and the birds singing. Miss
        Collingridge was there, Mrs. Gaston, Miss Massey, Miss New-
       some, an old servant and myself. Her father, uncle, and the
       other gentlemen came in the undertaker's mourning carriage.

m1l                   ANOTHER GRAVE                           441
These were all. I was not asked to attend ; I found out from 1885
Miss Collingridge when the funeral was to be, and went. There Ae,.49
were few of us only ; but we were all of a mind that Miss Savage
could never be replaced. I felt that I was attending the funeral
of incomparably the best and most remarkable woman I have ever
known. Happy she never was ; but I will say more of this at
another time.
      Immediately following this note comes another which
begins : " There is one neglected grave with a grim,
gaunt, mould-grown headstone, looking wicked all over,
on which is written : ' Near this spot lies interred
—here follow particulars of a lady " cut off by a
mysterious accident" in October 1867 ; her death having
been thus established, the inscription concludes with
these two texts :
      " Have mercy upon me O Lord, thou son of
David."
      " Behold I am alive for evermore, Amen ; and have
the keys of Hell and of Death."
      Upon this Butler makes the following comment :
     If a corpse can drink, I am sure this one does, and am also
sure that if she has the keys of Hell and of Death, she is not at
all a fit person to be entrusted with them.
             Butler to Humphrey Baskerville Savage.
                                                    1 March 1885.
     Dear S1r—I venture to ask whether any letters of mine
exist among Miss Savage's papers ; if so, I should be very glad if
you would let me have them. I think it most likely that Miss
Savage did not keep any letters of mine ; but, with her know
ledge and consent, I kept everything that she wrote me for many
years past. I did this partly from the profound admiration I had
for her and partly because I knew she was little likely to leave
any record of her daily life other than what is to be found in her
letters.
     Letters from me would serve to explain many an allusion in
her own which would otherwise be unintelligible, and it is for
this reason only that I am anxious, if she has preserved any, to
have them so that I may place them among hers in proper order.
     The letters on either side contained nothing but the merest
gossip, but I have thought and think she had a certain pleasure in

         442              MISS SAVAGE'S LETTERS                         an.
  188. knowing I should take good care that what she wrote me should
Aet. 4.9 not be lost.
              [I do not think this now, and doubt whether I ever really
         thought it. I believe she wrote for the mere pleasure of writing
         and also to give pleasure to me. I do not think it ever crossed
         her mind that I should edit her letters as I have now done.—S. B.
        Jan. 27th 1902.]
              Her letters form a collection the like of which I have never
         elsewhere seen, but I ought to explain that, although they will be
         carefully preserved, they will certainly not be published.
              With every expression of the deepest sympathy with Mrs.
         Savage and yourself, I am, yours faithfully,          S. Butler.
              [A very few letters were returned to me at once. The rest
         were not returned till about two years later without note or
         comment of any kind. I read some and was pained to see how
         meagre and how egotistical they were. I tore them up whole
         sale, but, when I had torn till I was tired, it struck me that I
         might want them when I came to edit Miss Savage's, so I let the
         others be.—S. B. Jan. 25th 1902.]
               It is evident from the way Butler wrote to his sisters
         about Miss Savage's letters, from the care with which he
         edited them, and from the manner in which he used to
         speak of them, that he looked forward to their being pub
         lished some day. This being so, it is difficult to reconcile
         his words to her father, " her letters will certainly not be
         published," with his words to Mrs. Bridges (23 Feb.
         1885) that they "cannot be made public till I have long
         followed her." I suppose he intended Mr. Savage to
         understand that he had no intention of publishing the
         letters in his own lifetime. As I have said elsewhere, I
         have made enquiries and, so far as I have been able to
         ascertain, there is no one now living who could or would
         object to the publication of the letters ; and I think most
        of my readers will agree with Butler's estimate of them.
                               Butler to Miss Butler.
              4 March 1885—I attended Miss Savage's funeral on Saturday
        —a very sad business. I find she died of blood poisoning after an
         operation for cancer, and I am told also that she was suffering
         from creeping paralysis. She did not, happily, suffer during the
         short interval between the operation and her death, and made all
         those about her believe that she fully thought she was going to

 xx111                       GHOSTS                            443
 recover—but she would do this whatever she thought. The day 1885
 before she died she said the first thing she should "do when she Aet. 49
 got out would be to support the School Board, for the noise the
 children had made had, she said, prolonged her illness for at least
 forty-eight hours, and she was determined to crush all the vitality
 out of them. This, which of course was playfully said, was the
 nearest thing to a complaint she made, and the sisters who
 attended her said it was a pleasure to have anything to do with
 her, she was always so cheerful and grateful. Towards the end
 she began to wander, became unconscious, and died most tran
 quilly. For herself this is no doubt best, but to those who knew
 her as I did the loss is simply irreparable. I do everything just
 as if nothing had happened, but in reality I can think of nothing
 else.
                               Ghosts
      It is a mercy that the dead cannot corne back and haunt us
 while we are alive—not but what a good many dead people, as
 William Sefton Moorhouse and Miss Savage, not to mention
 others, haunt me every day of my life. I do not suppose a day
 ever passes but it comes up to me with a stab that these people
 were kinder and better friends to me than I to them —however,
 let that be. [1895.]
       This reference to Moorhouse may remind the reader
 of a passage at the close of chapter x. (p. 170, ante) about
 the calling in by Butler of his New Zealand money, which
 was lent on mortgage to Moorhouse. From the point of
 view of the ordinary man of the world he had no more
 reason to reproach himself for his conduct towards Miss
 Savage than for his conduct towards Moorhouse. But
 his notions of honour were not identical with those of the
ordinary man of the world. Soon after Miss Savage's
death I asked him if he had ever proposed to her. He
replied that he had not. His financial position, compli
cated by the claims which he considered Pauli to have on
him, put marriage with anyone out of the question. I
felt sure at the time that his answer would be in the
negative, and since his death I have found this among his
notes :
     It may almost appear as though I had been in love with her,
but I never was and never pretended to be. I valued her, but she
perfectly understood that I could do no more. I can never think
of her without pain.

        444                     BOREDOM                        xxm
  1885       His saying that she perfectly understood he could do
Aet. 49 no more does not mean that they had talked the matter
        over ; it means that he took it for granted she under
        stood.     At least, I do not believe they ever spoke
        together openly upon the subject.        I have, however,
        often wondered whether something may not have passed
        —some word, glance, gesture—the memory of which was
        in his mind when he made those notes on the letters of
        December 1875 (ante, PP. 224~227), ^d when he wrote
        that she perfectly understood.
             It was an irony of Fate that the author of Erewhon, a
        book which glorifies health and beauty, should be for so
        many years so closely allied with one who had no claim
        to either beauty or health. He admired her unselfishness,
        her goodness, her brilliancy ; he was deeply touched by
        her devotion to him ; he valued her more than any other
        woman ; her loss was irreparable—nevertheless, as he says
        (ante, p. 227) in the note which follows her letter of
        18th December 1875, she bored him. In the matter of
        boredom, however, Butler had rather a facility ; he re
        sembled his own potato in Alps and Sanctuaries, chap. iv. :
        " For the potato, so far as I have studied it, is a good-
        tempered, frivolous plant easily amused and easily bored,
        and one, moreover, which, if bored, yawns horribly."
        I fear that, even if Miss Savage had had the beauty of
        Isabella, intimate relations would still have led to
        boredom. Much as he delighted in her letters, they all
        had to be answered, and he wanted to get on with his
        own work. Again, Miss Savage was interested in her
        club and in her women friends, and he was not, except
        in so far as they were her interests.        His primary
        interests, on the other hand, were only secondary interests
        to her. He wanted time and freedom from interruption
        for writing his books—as he says in his letter of the 1st
        February 1884 (ante, p. 404) to Miss Butler: "My
        books are to me much the most important thing in life.
        They are, in fact, • me ' much more than anything else."
        The notes of exclamation which he interpolated after
        " My dear little Gabrielle Vaillant " and after " She shall
        play Beethoven's ' Romance in F ' for you " in her letter

xxm         DISCONTENT AND REMORSE                       445
of 15th December 1875 (ante» P. 22S) are M eloquent as 1885
though he had written : " Fancy Miss Savage thinking et. 49
she could catch me with Gabrielle Vaillant and Beethoven's
• Romance in F * ! " and betray an incompatibility of tastes
that might have led through boredom to something more
serious than yawning. He realised this. He had no
doubt that Miss Savage would have accepted him if he
had proposed marriage, but rather than marry her he
would have preferred that all his troubles should be
multiplied a hundredfold. True, there would have been
fewer letters to answer, but there would have been even
more serious interruptions.
    My own impression is that, if he had proposed
marriage during the early years of their friendship, she
would have accepted him ; but I doubt whether she
would have done so later. He speaks of the cause of
her lameness as hip-disease ; I do not think he ever knew
for certain ; but she probably knew and, sooner or later,
she must have been aware that she had cancer, if not that
she was threatened with paralysis. She must in time
have become convinced that he had no desire to marry
her ; her common sense must have suggested the wisdom
of accepting the situation ; it would also suggest com
pensations ; and it probably crossed her mind that
Butler was not the sort of man to make an ideal husband
for an invalid wife. There are some who ought not to
marry for physical reasons ; there are others who ought
not to marry for mental reasons. If, however, we are to
see mind and matter never either of them absolute but
each eternally permeated by the other, according to
Butler's letter to my brother Edward, perhaps the dis
tinction is scarcely worth making.
    So their friendship drifted on, she offering him all she
had to give, he taking all he wanted and making such
return as he could, but despising himself, unhappy and
discontented because he could not give the one thing
which he believed her to be asking ; and all the time
puzzled and wondering whether he was not misjudging
her. Suddenly the strain was removed, and his discontent
was changed into remorse which deepened as the years

        446               MISS SAVAGE'S GRAVE                   «m
  1885 rolled on. Within a few months of his own death he
Aet. 49 attempted to express his regret and penitence in two
        sonnets and some scraps of verse, which are referred to
        more fully later ; among the scraps will be found this
        beautiful and pathetic line :
                    Death bound me to her when he set me free.
            In November 191 5 I spent a few melancholy hours
       journeying to Finchley and prowling among the tombs.
        I found the headstone of the lady who was cut off by
        a mysterious accident. It was still grim, gaunt, mould-
        grown, and looking wicked all over ; but during the
        intervening period of neglect it had added other qualities.
        It was sink1ng into the earth as though ashamed of itself ;
        nothing was visible below the top foot and a half or so,
        and I had to grope and probe among the grass with my
        umbrella before I could be certain of the last line of the
        inscription. In a few more years the keys of Hell and
        of Death will be interred under the surface ; and in time
        the whole stone will have gone below to join the corpse
       whose mouthpiece it has been for half a century.
            Miss Savage's tombstone is a plain upright slab ; it
       had begun to scale and the writing was in some parts
       difficult, in one part impossible, to read. This is what I
       made of it :
                                 IN LOVING MEMORY
                                          OF
                               ELIZA MARY ANN
                                    DAUGHTER OF
                       HUMPHREY and ANN SAVAGE
                          OF BEAUMONT STREET MARYLEBONE
                    WHO    DIED 22ND FEB.   1 885 AGED 49 YEARS
                    " SHE SOUGHT NOT HER OWN "... XUC 5*
                       ALSO OF ANN MOTHER OF THE ABOVE
                        AND THE BELOVED WIFE OF H. SAVAGE
                     WHO DIED 8TH FEB.     1 886 AGED 77 YEARS
                    "AWAITING UNTIL THE DAY DAWN AND THE
                                 LIGHT APPEARETH."

xx111                  HER EPITAPH                             447
     It will be observed that Mr. Savage was not buried 1885
with his wife and daughter ; Julius Bertram told me that e ' 49
he left London and ended his days in the country.
      I did not recognise the quotation, " She sought not
her own," and what should have been the reference to
some book of the Bible gave no help. I was puzzled,
and carried my difficulty to Streatfeild, who made a
suggestion which led to the solution. In the place where
I have put three dots the stone shows nothing but a few
scratches—all that is now left of what must originally
have been " 1 Cor." I returned to the cemetery to
make sure about the XIIC, fearing I might have copied it
wrong. The stone just there is unbroken, and the XIIC is
as clear as can be ; but it must be a mistake for XIIIC.
The fifth verse of this chapter contains these words :
" Seeketh not her own." It is the chapter about Charity ;
and I thought of that passage in Life and Habit where
Butler says :                                               .
    Above all things let no unwary reader do me the injustice of
believing in me. In that I write at all I am among the damned.
If he must believe in anything, let him believe in the music of
Handel, the painting of Giovanni Bellini, and in the Thirteenth
Chapter of St. Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians.
     On the death of Alethea in The Way of All Flesh
(ch. xxxvi.) Edward Overton asks Ernest if he can help
him to find a few bars of music for " the plain upright
slab " which he set up to her memory. Ernest replies
that the best bit he can think of is the subject of the last
of Handel's six grand fugues.
    It would do better for a man, especially for an old man who
was very sorry for things, than for a woman, but I cannot think
of anything better ; if you do not like it for Aunt Alethea, I shall
keep it for myself.
     Butler used to call this fugue" The Old Man Fugue,"
and he wished to have the subject inscribed on his own
grave. That is the reason why I have placed it upon the
title-page of this Memoir.
     If the prototype of Ernest had been asked to suggest
a few words from the Bible for the epitaph of the proto

       448            IN MEMORIAM E. M. A. S.                      XXn,
1885 type of Alethea, we may assume that he would have taken
et* 49 care to give the reference correctly, and he would have
        avoided the awkwardness of conjugating the text. Also,
       nothing is more likely than that he would have sought
       for the words in that chapter which, notwithstanding its
       authorship, he considered worthy to be ranked with the
       music of Handel and the painting of Giovanni Bellini.
       We may be sure, however, that he was not consulted—he
       was not even invited to the funeral. No doubt it was
       Mr. and Mrs. Savage who, while intending no more than
       to record the unselfishness of their daughter, unconsciously
       associated Butler with her memory.
           While they were composing the epitaph Butler was
       consciously planning to associate Miss Savage with his
       own work, that is with our album of Gavottes, Minuets,
       Fugues, etc., which we had been seeing through the press
       during the winter. He felt sure she would have been
       pleased, and would have approved of his desire that our
       music should contain some reference to her. There was
       nothing of his that had any feeling of sadness, so we chose
       what we used to call my " miserable fugue " in C. We
       never thought it worthy of her, but we wrote at the head
       of it " In Memoriam E. M. A. S.," and there was only
       just time to do so, for the book was all but ready for
       publication.
                                  END OF VOL. I
                     Printed by R. & R. Clark- L1m1ted, Edinburgh*




                  14 DAY USE
RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED
               LOAN DEPT.
  This book is due on the last date stamped below, or
             on the date to which renewed.
    Renewed books are subject to immediate recall.
 JUL 16 1968 0 0
                               ima BBc
                                  SEP 3 1986
     m wt^5 n-
        loan D r«T
FED 1 3 1075
            pea nac ij¦'               dec*«'m
   3HI10W55
      BCLQE. hr/2619
            14A8Q :ia
    m     CEIVED BY*
       is*j^ io idbO
=
   CIRCULATION DEPJ.
                                      General Library
   LD 21A-15m.9-'67               University of California
    (H50G7elOH76B                         Berkeley
                                 ¦*    General Library
   LD 21-100m.2-'55                UoivertSy of California
   (B139s22)476                            Berkeley

r
                GENERAL LIBRARY - U.C. BERKELEY
                       BDDQfi7t,aid
       ' •
     ;   • -.
  UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY

This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


 tttKEiir
LIBRARY
UMIVflSITY Of
 CALIKMNIA





SAMUEL BUTLER
 AUTHOR OF EREWHON

    MACMILLAN AND CO., Limited
  LONDON • BOMBAY • CALCUTTA • MADRAS
              MELBOURNE
    THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
      NEW YOPK • BOSTON • CHICAGO
        DALLAS • SAN FRANCISCO
THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd.
                TORONTO



SAMUEL                  BUTLER
     AUTHOR OF          EREWHON
              (1835-1902)      .
        A    MEMOIR
      HENRY TESTING JONES
                              Handsl, Tap VI,
          IN TWO VOLUMES
        VOL. II. from 1886 to 1916
  MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
  ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON
                  1920

 COPYRIGHT
First Edition igrg
 Reprinted igzo

                                                    v. ^
                  CONTENTS
                   CHAPTER XXIV
                                                    PACK
The Way of All Flesh .....                             i
                   CHAPTER XXV
                   1885—Part II. 1886
Luck or Cunning?                                      18
                   CHAPTER XXVI
                    1887. 1888—Part I
Ex Voto                                               46
                  CHAPTER XXVII
                   1888—Part II.  1889
Narcissus, The Universal Review, and preparing for
     The Life of Dr. Butler                           64
                  CHAPTER XXVIII
                           1890
Studying Counterpoint and taking leave of Evolution   89
                   CHAPTER XXIX
                           1891
The Problem of the Odyssey .     .....               103
                             T

vi                   CONTENTS
                  CHAPTER XXX
                           1892
                                                   PAGE
Sicily                                              121
                  CHAPTER XXXI
                           1893
The Wanderings of Ulysses                           148
                  CHAPTER XXXII
                           1894
The Country of the Odyssey                          175
                 CHAPTER XXXIII
                      1895 —Part I
The Country of the Iliad                           200
                 CHAPTER XXXIV
                      1895—Part II
Preparing Dr. Butler's Life, the Odyssey Book, and
     Ulysses                                       226
                 CHAPTER XXXV
                           1896
The Life and Letters of Dr. Samuel Butler .      . 239
                 CHAPTER XXXVI
                      1897—Part I
The Authoress of the Odyssey     .                 264

                       CONTENTS                      vii
                 CHAPTER XXXVII
                   1897—Part II.        1898
                                                    PAGE
The Problem of the Sonnets and The Iliad rendered
    into English Prose                              282
                CHAPTER XXXVIII
                    1899.     1900—Part I
Shakespeare's Sonnets Reconsidered           ....   299
                  CHAPTER XXXIX
                        1900— Part II
The Odyssey rendered into English Prose         . . 326
                     CHAPTER XL
                               1 901
Erewhon Revisited                                   337
                     CHAPTER XLI
                         1902—Part I
Editing his Remains                                  360
                    CHAPTER XLII
                        1902 —Part II
Last Days                                            388
                   CHAPTER XLIII
                           1 902-19 1 6
On Lips or other Men                                40a

  viii                  CONTENTS
                       APPENDICES
                                                       PACK
  A. Miss Savage's Review of Erewhon    ....           439
  B. Letter to T. W. G. Butler (i8th Feb. 1876) .    . 444
  C. Documents relating to the Quarrel between Butler
       and Darwin                                      446
  D. Chronology and Addenda for The Way of All Flesh 468
  E. Inventories for Outings                           472
  INDEX                                                475
'

                   ILLUSTRATIONS
"Family Prayers" (1864.), from the oil-painting by Butler now
      at St. John's College, Cambridge      .... Frontispiece
                                                               TO FACE PAGE
 Clifford's Inn, showing Alfred standing in the window of Butler's
      room, from a photograph taken by Butler in 1888 ...               46
 Portrait of Samuel Butler, from a photograph taken by Pizzctta
      at Varallo-Scsia in 1889 .      .     .    .    .     .      .64
Butler and Jones in Gogin's studio at Shoreham, from a photo
      graph taken by Charles Gogin in 1890                               89
Trapani and the Islands from Mount Eryx, from a drawing, now
      at St. John's College, Cambridge, made by H.F.Jones in 191 3     175
Portrait of Samuel Butler (1896), from the oil-painting by
      Charles Gogin in the National Portrait Gallery.        .      .  239
Portrait of Samuel Butler, from a photograph taken by Alfred
      Emery Cathie in 1898                                             282
Samuel Butler at Home, from a photograph taken by Alfred
      Emery Cathie.                                                    326
Portrait of Alfred Emery Cathie, from the oil-painting by Butler
      in Alfred's possession     .     .    .    .    .     .          337
Facsimile of a Letter from Butler to Mr. and Mrs. Fuller
      Maitland (14th May 1902)                                         388
Portrait of Henry Fcsting Jones (1903), from the oil-painting
      by Charles Gogin in the possession of H. F. Jones .          .   402


                       CHAPTER XXIV
                    THE WAT OF ALL FLESH
  The Way of All Flesh was, as the reader will have
 observed, altered and re-written in accordance with Miss
 Savage's criticisms and suggestions ; and so intimately
 was it connected with her that, after her death, Butler
 could not bring himself to work on it any more ; never
 theless, until the end of his life, he always intended to do
 so. Begun in 1873 and not touched after 1885 it is one
of the books—perhaps the principal book—he had in
mind when, in 1898, he wrote this sentence in the account
of the relations between himself and Pauli :
     If in my books, from Erewhon [1872] to Luck or Cunning ?
[1887] there is a something behind the written words which the
reader can feel but not grasp—and I fancy that this must be so—
It is due, I believe, to the sense of wrong which was omnipresent
with me, not only in regard to Pauli, the Darwins, and my
father, but also in regard to my ever-present anxiety about
money.
      In the Appendix is given a chronology of the novel
and also a list of addenda. The chronology was made in
the course of re-writing the book because he found he
was liable to forget the dates, and so, to avoid contradict
ing himself, he made a statement for reference, to which
perhaps he did not strictly adhere. In the addenda he
put notes of things to be inserted, which were perhaps
nob all inserted when the time came.
      In form the story is, like the Book of Job and the
Odyssey, that of the good man passing through trials and
coming out triumphant in the end. Ernest is sustained
by faith in " a something as yet but darkly known which
      vol. 11                                              b

a            ALETHEA AND MISS SAVAGE
makes right right and wrong wrong " (chap. Ixviii.).
If there is but little love-interest in the book, the Odyssey
does not contain more and the Book of Job contains less.
Had he wished to write a love story, no doubt he could
have done it ; and the relations between Edward Overton
and Alethea, supposed to be in love and yet never
marrying, would have provided material for an account of
a sentimental attachment. The parties might even have
been allowed to marry when they were both past seventy.
They never marry and Butler thought that the reader was
entitled to some explanation. All the explanation he
gets, however, is contained in ch. xviii. when they meet at
Ernest's christening :
    It is impossible for me to explain how it was that she and I
never married. We two knew exceedingly well, and that must
suffice for the reader. There was the most perfect sympathy and
understanding between us ; we knew that neither of us would
marry anyone else. I had asked her to marry me a dozen times
over ; having said this much I will say no more upon a point
which is in no way necessary for the development of my story.
     These words represent the fact about as accurately as
Theobald's letter represents the fact when, in proposing
to Christina, he tries to blind her to any lack of fervour
there may be in his subsequent conduct by throwing into
her eyes the dust of an imaginary dead love. Buder's
difficulty arose partly from his having made Alethea so
beautiful. If Miss Savage had been beautiful he might
have wanted to marry her, and then he would have had a
precedent in real life from which to draw the relations
between Edward Overton and Alethea. As it was he had
no precedent for the situation he had created in the book ;
the relations between himself and Isabella might have
supplied hints, but Isabella could not have written Miss
Savage's letters, while Alethea could. In other respects
also Isabella was too different from an educated English
woman of his own class to afford much help ; and, after
all, Ernest was the hero, not Edward Overton. So he
wrote the mysterious passage I have quoted, and left the
reader to make what he could of it.
     He knew that the first few chapters, dealing with

xxiv               UNIMAGINATIVENESS                           3
Ernest's ancestry, were a little long, but he wished to
emphasise Ernest's pre-natal experiences and wrote the
opening and left it as it stands intentionally, meaning it to
be illustrative of the theory of Life and Habit. The
climax is the spiritual and physical emancipation of a
human being from the unnatural restraints imposed upon
him by the stupidity, folly, and ignorance of those who
had controlled his early life.
     Returning with a cold from a Christmas outing he
wrote to one of his sisters (29th December 1885) :
     Curiously enough, like all unimaginative people, I have a
fancy that everyone else has a cold as soon as I get one myself ;
whereas, until I had caught one, I thought that really no one
was at all likely to have one. I hope this fancy is groundless so
far as you all are concerned.
      He often spoke of his unimaginativeness, but I think
he knew that like Nausicaa {The Authoress of the Odysseyy
p. 202) he was endowed with that other and " highest
 kind of imagination which consists in wise selection and
judicious application of material derived from life." He
 used to say : " Appropriate passages are intended to be
 appropriated " ; he was always on the look-out for
 appropriate phrases and incidents, and acquired great skill
 in fitting them in. The incidents may in his pages be
 sometimes presented not as other people saw them, but
 they appear as he himself saw them, except for occasional
 twists which he thought necessary for artistic reasons.
 Instances of appropriation occur on nearly every page.
 The shepherd (chap, xiv.) who was covered with confusion
 when they came to the words " Shepherds with your
 flocks abiding " is taken from a boy at school with me
 who, it was said, always blushed when the choir practised
 " He saw the lovely youth," in Theodora ; and Butler's old
 uncle, Philip Worsley, said, as George Pontifex says
 (chap, xviii.), "You forget you have to deal with a stomach
 that is totally disorganised."
      I do not know whether any one ever actually preached
 the sermon introducing the delicate blossom unfolding
 and promising autumn fruit on the barren fig-tree, but it

 4                       DEATH-BEDS                          XXIV
 was a story current at Cambridge about Butler's time.
 Ernest's sermon (chap, lxi.) about the little cake of the
 widow of Zarephath was invented, and contains an echo
 of part of this note :
                               Mead
     Mead is the lowest of the intoxicants, just as Church is the
 lowest of the dissipations, and carraway seed the lowest of the
 condiments.
      Ernest was thinking of how in his boyhood on
 Sunday mornings on the way home from church, he used
 sometimes to accompany his elders to call on a kind old
 lady with broad ribbons to her cap who would bring out
 of the sideboard a glass of mead (in my own case it was
 raisin wine) and a slice of seed cake wherewith to regale
 her young visitor.         Ernest assumed that among his
 congregation there must be some in whose memories the
 peculiar odour emanating from that sideboard cupboard
was still lingering.
      I am afraid I must confess to being the culprit who
provided Ernest with his pseudo-death-bed regret that he
had been much too good to his parents (chap. lxxx.).
It was while I was recovering from scarlet fever in
Barnard's Inn in the winter of 1 881-1882. I was very
weak, and Butler had to stoop down to hear what I said.
When I had said it he burst out laughing, and exclaimed,
" Oh, you're all right," just as the nurse claps her hands
when Ernest is recovering in prison.
      Christina's death-bed (chap, lxxxiii.) is drawn partly
from Mrs. Butler's death-bed at Mentone in 1873 :
     " She has been the comfort and mainstay of my life for more
than thirty years," said Theobald, as soon as all was over, " but
one could not wish it prolonged," and he buried his face in his
handkerchief to conceal his want of emotion.
     Part of this speech is slightly altered from the words
of a letter Canon Butler wrote from Mentone, 21st March
1873 ; and as for the rest of it, Butler often told me how
his father wandered about the house as the end approached
repeating that one could not wish it prolonged. I suppose

 XXIV                 FAMILY PRAYERS                              5
 that Christina's cry, " Oh, I knew he would come, I knew,
 I knew he would come," and Ernest's breaking down and
 weeping at her bed-side, are taken from what happened
when Butler approached his dying mother at Mentone, but
he never told me so. It was Mrs. Bridges who made the
muddle about putting the letters into the wrong envelopes.
The incident occurred during Canon Butler's illness in
 1883, and one of the letters was to Langar asking for the
 prayers of the congregation ; naturally they went wrong,
 for which she abused Butler who had been told to post
them.
      When he went to stay with his people there really was
in his bedroom a card with the words :
                  Be the day weary, or be the day long,
                  At last it ringeth to Evensong.
      It will be remembered that Ernest at family prayers
(chap, lxxxiii.) knelt next Charlotte and said the responses
perfunctorily. This also is founded on fact as will appear
from this note made in 1883 :
    When I was last at Shrewsbury I noted that the prayers
 began, " O God, who art always more ready to hear than we to
pray." Is it not rather impertinent to tell God this f
     I knelt next my elder sister and repeated the responses to the
Lord's Prayer, but perfunctorily—not enough for her to be able to
lay hold of, but perfunctorily as one who meant to do the lot, and
 then forgot a bit, and then woke up a bit. I don't know whether
she noticed, and I took care she should not be able to think it was
intentional.
      Here is a chain of notes about Butler's two sisters of
whom Charlotte Pontifex is but a faint sketch :
            Jones and I at the Royal Institution
    We went at the beginning of this month to hear a lecture on
evolution by a man named Weldon. It was very dull ; we
thought it would be, but I thought I rather ought to go. I sat
just below James Martineau ; he looked very old ; I think he
knew me but am not sure. Jones and I arrived some half-an-hour
before the lecture began, so we brought out The Bird «' Freedom
and The Sporting Times, perhaps the two most uncultured papers
in London, and read them while waiting. [1885.]

                              HARRIE
                Mrs. Bridges and Mrs. Weldon
     On the afternoon of this same day my sister Harrie had called
on me by arrangement for a cup of tea and to meet Jones. She
was highly charged with electricity, but she wanted to make an
impression on Jones, and more particularly to outshine May, who
had had a similar interview with Jones a year before. This,
however, was not to bar her right to scratch me should occasion
offer, and in the course of time the occasion was induced to offer
itself in this wise. I said that we were going to hear the lecture
referred to in the preceding note, and added that Mr. Weldon, the
lecturer, might be a far away cousin of ours as we had Weldon
ancestors who had lived at Naseby during the civil wars.
Harrie said she knew nothing of this, but hoped we were not
related to Mrs. Weldon.
     " Oh no," said I, " I hope not, she's horrid."
     I could see that Harrie had been getting more and more
highly charged with electricity, and my words were the
 occasion of an immediate flash.
     " I must say, Sam," she said, " that I think you know a great
 many very horrid women."
     I said I did not know Mrs. Weldon, and had never even
 seen her.
     Harrie said : "Perhaps not, but I think you are apt to take
 extreme views of people."
     I laughed it off, and changed the subject, but Harrie flushed
 up and, I hope, felt better inasmuch as she had had her scratch.
 As for Mrs. Weldon she must be rather disagreeable, at least one
 would think so, for she is at this moment undergoing a sentence
 of six months' imprisonment for libel.
      I saw Harrie look up at the sketches which hang over my
 mantelpiece ; she said nothing, and I said they were most of
 them my own.
      Harrie said : " Yes, I see they        ," and then stopped.
      She meant to say she could see they were by me as they were
 so bad, but stopped before she got to the word "are" which,
  however, she knew very well would go without saying. [1885.]
                         Miss Butler's Carol
                 Good news I good news for all the world
                      Peals out from every steeple,
                 A tale of joy without alloy
                      To us and all the people.

  XXIV                                 MAY                                       7
                   Homeward we flock from East and West,
                         Home to our yearly meeting,
                   A sense of rest in every breast,
                         On every lip a greeting.
                   Old friends clasp hands, old foes make peace,
                         Old sorrows fade away ;
                   For Christ was born in Bethlehem,
                         And this is Christmas Day.
                   All through the night the silent stars
                         Looked forth from cloudless skies,
                   Trembling for very joy until
                         The morning star should rise ;
                   All heaven seemed bursting into song,
                         All nature listening,
                   The expectant world 1 on bended knee
                         Was waiting for the King.
                   Now dawn is come, the angels sing,
                         And we are glad as they ;
                   For Christ was born in Bethlehem,
                         And this is Christmas Day.
                            Our Gavotte Album
      The day after I had read the foregoing (May's Carol) I took
Jones's and my Gavottes to Novello's for engraving. I did not
notice that the stars had been particularly noisy on the preceding
evening ; the buses were going about the streets much as usual
and, only that the pavement was greasy by reason of the thaw,
there was not much evidence of sympathy on the part of inanimate
nature. True, there had been an explosion on the underground
railway a few days previously, and also Mr. Gladstone was
indisposed, but neither of these events was distinctly connected
with the Gavottes, so I just took them to Novello s and came
home to dinner. [1885.]
                                    NARCISSUS
      Or rather my part of it. I played u Ah, cruel Fortune " to
May. She did not say anything except :
      " I should like to see how the words go."
      I gave her the music, and she said no more. Then I played
the choruses. She said :
      " And have you brought down all that you have done ? "
      I said I had, and there the matter ended.
       Harrie went on writing letters and said nothing what
ever. [1884.]
     1 May wrote "All Christendom," but the Editor [of The Albany Magazine, in
 which the carol appeared, January 1885] reflected that Christendom was not yet in
 existence and changed the reading.—S. B.

8            "VERY PAINFUL READING"                        xxiv
                  one say
    I heard someTwo    Are     and replied
                          thisBetter   Than: One
    " Yes, but the man who said that did not know my sisters."
    This proverb is the help-meet for The Half is Greater than
the Whole of Hesiod. [ 1 893.]
     And Butler thought he was letting Ernest off easily by
giving him only one sister when he had two himself.
     Towneley is intended as a contrast to Ernest. He
crowded into Towneley all the good things he had observed
in those of his friends whom he most admired. There
had been nothing wrong in Towneley's bringing up.
With a great price Ernest obtained his freedom, but
Towneley was born free. His parents died when he was
very young in order that he might not be bullied in child
hood, and they were drowned by the overturning of a
boat in order that there might be no suspicion of either of
them having died of any disease which Towneley might
have inherited.
     After the book was published, Canon M'Cormick said
to me :
     "Well, I've got The Way of All Flesh, and I must say
I find it very painful reading."
     I said, " I told you not to read it."
     He replied, " Yes, I know you did ; but I was obliged
to get it. Of course, I see he has put me in—of course I
am Towneley, and he says a great many very kind things
about me ; but I am glad you called, because I particularly
want you to understand that the incident of Towneley's
visit to Miss Snow is not drawn from life."
     I did not tell the old gentleman that Towneley was
drawn more from Pauli, or rather from what Butler had
persuaded himself that Pauli was, than from any one else,
for this would have been to tell him that the " kind
things " were not all about him. But the particular
incident of Towneley's visit to Miss Snow was drawn
from Butler himself, not from Pauli. Butler never was
on sufficiently intimate terms with Pauli to be able to
take any such incident from him.
     Other people thought the book " very painful reading."

XXIV              SELF-PORTRAITURE
Some years after Butler's death I met a lady at dinner
who told me she had been reading The Old Wives' Tale by
Arnold Bennett, and asked me to recommend her some
other book. I recommended The Way ofAll Flesh. She was
up in arms in a moment. The book had been mentioned
to her by a Quaker friend, and she had got it and begun
it. It had disgusted and shocked and horrified her so
much that she had burnt it in the fire in her drawing-
room grate.
     I was never quick, as Butler was, to recognise and
appropriate appropriate passages ; but next time I met
this lady, having had time to think over her words, I
said :
     " Would • you mind my introducing your burning
 The Way of All Flesh into the Life of Butler which I am
 writing ? "
     She remembered all about it, but was coy because, as
she said, burning is not very polite treatment. I replied :
     "Never mind about the rudeness.             Haven't you
 noticed that authors do not object to abuse ? The only
 thing that really irritates them is indifference."
     " Oh,' there was none of that," she exclaimed, and
 graciously gave her consent.
     Both Ernest and Edward Overton are pieces of self-
 portraiture and give a far better idea of Buder than
 could ever be given by any one else except that, no
doubt from considerations of modesty, he suppresses
 many of his own good points. Any one who knew
 him can recognise many passages wherein he is laughing
 at himself and at his own little failings, oddities, and
quixotisms.
     When Edward Overton doubts whether Ernest ever
 will be as wary as he ought to be about trusting any one
 who is kind to him—this is a dig at himself. He was
 always thinking, as he says of Ernest (chap. Ixxvii.),
 that people had a claim upon him for some inestimable
 service they had rendered him or some irreparable mischief
 done to them by himself, so much so that I used to say
 of him that he must always pay double and other people
 might only pay him half.

 io            CUDDLING THE MESSIAH                      xxiv
     Again (chap. Ixxiii.) when Ernest finds that no
absolutely incontrovertible first principle is possible, and
is just as well pleased as though he had found the most
perfect system imaginable—all he wanted was to know
which way it was to be—this is exactly like himself.
And so it is when (chap, lxxx.) " having found a theory
on which to justify himself, he slept in peace." As with
Butler so with Ernest, when anything puzzled him there
must be a theory, only a working hypothesis if you like,
but final, pro tem. This was part of the tidiness
of Butler's nature which Ernest inherited from the
author.
     Again, any statement involving a contradiction, not
realised as such by the person making it, outraged his
sense of tidiness. No one felt more acutely than he did
that life depends upon the equilibrium resulting from
the clash of opposites, and this involves the existence of
contradictions. But these are not untidy contradictions
springing from muddle-headedness and carelessness ; there
is no untidiness in intentional contradictions which are
pigeon-holed as such from the first.
     The episode (chap, xliv.) of the old gentleman, who
turned out to be the police magistrate, watching Ernest
in the train, is taken from something that happened to
Butler. He was going in the Underground from the
Temple to High Street, Kensington, i.e. from Clifford's
Inn to the Albert Hall, to hear the Messiah and had
the music with him ; during the journey he was thinking
of his troubles with Pauli and his father and of his money
difficulties, just as Ernest going home from school was
thinking of his own troubles, and smiled resignedly as it
occurred to him that after all perhaps it did not matter.
Just then he noticed that a passenger opposite was
watching him, and amused himself, in a kind of burlesque
Christina reverie, by wondering whether or no his smile of
resignation would be attributed to religious exaltation
because he was cuddling the Messiah.
     Ernest's landlady, Mrs. Jupp, was in real life Mrs.
Boss who used to wait on Reginald Worsley, as has been
said earlier. But Mrs. Jupp had to be edited into a far

 xx.v                   ILLEGITIMACY                              11
 more respectable person than ever poor old Boss was.
 Here is a note about the original :
                                 Boss
     Boss's son, Tom, is illegitimate ; but he has himself committed
 bigamy, first with Topsy and now with Phoebe—or " Phoeb,"
 as Boss calls her without sounding the final " e." Boss was not
 married quite enough ; Tom is married a little too much. She
 was saying one day that illegitimacy did not matter, and was
 pleased when my cousin explained to her that all the animals
 were illegitimate, [1887.]
      Ernest's life in Ashpit Place is drawn from Butler's
life in Heddon Street after he had come down from
 Cambridge and was intending to take orders.                    The
lodgers in Ernest's house are the lodgers in his own
house. Pryer is not drawn from any one ; he was wanted
so that Ernest might lose his money ; the account of
Ernest's shares going up and down with Pryer (chap.
lv. et seq.) is, however, taken from what Butler experienced
with Henry Hoarc.
      Ernest did not go to New Zealand and Butler never
went to prison, which he used to regret when he was
approaching this part of the book, for he did not see
how he was ever going to make it plausible. In the end
he paid a visit to Coldbath Fields, was most politely
received, stated his difficulty and obtained all the informa
tion he required.
      I do not know of any original for the episode of
Ellen's leaving Battersby ; he perhaps took her previous
marriage with John from the disclosure towards the
end of Pendennis of Amory's bigamy. I do not mean
that the disclosure of bigamy is not used to get rid of
inconvenient spouses and bring the story to an end in
other novels, but Butler was familiar with Thackeray's
books and early in life admired them. (Cf. The Note-Books
of Samuel Butler, p. 188.)
      The meeting and subsequent marriage of Ernest and
Ellen was founded on what happened to Butler's friend
E. whose umbrella caught in a woman's dress in Holborn,

12                "AN AWFUL MESS"
which led to a conversation, which led to something
further, which led to their marriage when E. attained
twenty-one. E. and his wife, however, were strangers
when they met in the street, and never kept an old-
clothes shop ; but she did take to drinking and evil
courses, and E. acted on his discoveries and divorced her.
Ernest and Ellen have two children, a girl and a boy,
because only two, a girl and a boy, survived of the
children which E.'s wife bore to him. Butler has it in
his notes that I was telling the story of E.'s married life
to Mr. Forster, the father of a college friend of mine,
and told him further that E.'s son once said to his
father :
     "Do you know, papa, I don't think I shall marry
when I grow up."
     " Oh, why not, my boy ? " said E.
     " Well, you see, you did make such an awful mess of it."
     Mr. Forster was much scandalised and supposed that
E. reproved his son.
     I said, " No, he did not. He knew very well he had
made an awful mess of it, that his wife was a bad woman,
and he was very thankful to have got rid of her."
     Mr. Forster said, " Well, but after all she was the
mother of his children."
     " Yes," I said, " there was never any doubt about
that ; the question was whether he was their father."
     The account of Ernest's coming home, finding Ellen
drunk and being humbugged into believing that it was
the result of her being in an interesting condition, the
neglect of the house, and all the rest of the misery, was
taken from what E. told Butler about his own married
life. Butler used to say there was no occasion for him
ever to get married ; he had learnt all there was to know
from E. After the novel was published I was talking
about it to E., who said that all this part was wonderfully
well done. I said :
     " Of course you think so ; it is all reproduced from
what you told him of your own experiences."
     E. had forgotten having told Butler anything about
his own married life.

xxiv         QUOTING FROM MEMORY                              13
     The place where Ernest puts his children is the Long
Reach Tavern down the river opposite Purfleet. We
often lunched there on our Sunday walks, and sometimes
brought back mushroom ketchup made by the landlady
from mushrooms gathered by her children. This matter
of Ernest's children is another point of difference between
Butler and Ernest, so far as mere facts are concerned.
Butler was never married—not even bigamously ; and
never had any children—so far as he knew ; but he made
Ernest behave to Alice and Georgie as he believed that
he would himself have tried to behave to any children he
might have had, instead of treating them as Theobald
treated Ernest. I think it possible that parts of the scheme
might in practice have been subjected to modification.
     Several unimportant misprints occurred in the first
edition of the book and one important one, which was
corrected in the edition of 1908. What Edward Overton
(chap, lxxvii.) really said was, " 'Tis better to have loved and
lost than never to have lost at all," and it was right in the
proofs ; but some cultured printer's reader, who had too
seriously taken to heart Lord Salisbury's recommendation
to verify your references, " corrected " it after the last
revise had been passed. Edward Overton was " quoting
from memory," and this particular piece of wickedness
was hit upon as a pendant to that other in chap. iv. of
Alps and Sanctuaries :
    Mr. Tennyson has well said, " There lives more doubt "—I
quote from memory—" in honest faith, believe me, than in half
the systems of philosophy," or words to that effect.
     Butler could not for a long time make up his mind how
to use the one about loving and losing because, if applied
to any one who was dead, it was difficult to manage
without giving offence ; ultimately this conversation was
 built up to meet the case.
     He often said that any one who had become a widower,
or had divorced his wife, had been inoculated for marriage
 and had recovered.
     When I was at Cambridge there was an undergraduate,
 a good deal older than the rest of us and a blackguard,

          BUTLER'S CHRISTENING BIBLE
who lodged in the same house with one of my friends. I
asked my friend how he got on with the older man and
he replied :
     " Oh, he's all very well—when he's sober."
     And the lady students at Heatherley's used to call
Butler " the incarnate bachelor." Here, at the opening of
chap, lxxvii., in less than seven lines, are four passages
which had been floating in his head for years until at last
he worked them together, like bits of mosaic, into this
conversation ; and yet the passage reads perfectly smoothly
and has no feeling of mosaic about it.
     There was another mistake in chap, lx., but the printer
was not responsible for this. " It was the Bible given
him at his christening by his affectionate godmother
and aunt, Elizabeth Allaby." Alethea was Ernest's god
mother. But Butler had a christening Bible of his own
with this inscription :
     " Samuel Butler, from his affectionate godmother and
aunt, Anna Worsley. September 13th, 1836."
     In appropriating this inscription for Ernest he sub
stituted for the name of his own maternal aunt that of
Ernest's, whereas he should have written that of Ernest's
paternal aunt ; but he was not going to allow Ernest to
ill-treat anything given him by Alethea. It may be he
forgot that Ernest, like most boys, had only one god
mother ; it is however just as likely that he knew what he
was doing, and thought that to let such a consideration
weigh with him would have been to pay too much atten
tion to a detail concerning an unimportant formality of
the Church. Just as he told Miss Savage that it was as
well not to know how a saint's name should be spelt when
she pointed out that he had written " St. Lewis " for
"St. Louis" in Life and Habit (ante, I. 263). Whatever
the explanation may be, Streatfeild and I both overlooked
the point when we were reading the proofs.
     The text from the Epistle to the Romans quoted on
the title-page, " We know that all things work together
for good to them that love God," was a favourite one
with him : it is referred to again in chap, lxviii., where it
is followed by an allusion to " that noble air of Handel's,

xxIV         THE CUSTODE AT PALERMO                        15
1 Great God, Who yet but darkly known.' " He was
continually quoting it in all sorts of connections.
      Many years after the novel was written we were in
Palermo and went to the Palazzo Reale to see the mosaics
in the Cappella Palatina. Butler paid at the door and the
custode gave him a bad lira among his change ; he
noticed it at once and they had words about it, but it was
of no use. The custode was a lordly old gentleman,
voluble in his speech and overwhelming in his gestures and
manners ; he carried too many guns and deafened us with
 his protestations—first, that it was a good lira ; secondly,
 that it was not the one he had given us, and so on, and so
 on. We could not have felt more ashamed of ourselves
 if we had been foiled in an attempt to convict the Cardinal-
 Archbishop himself of uttering counterfeit coin. So we
 gave it up and passed in defeated. When we came out
 we had recovered a little, and the custode, who had
 forgotten all about so usual an occurrence, returned our
 umbrellas to us with an obsequiousness capable of but one
 interpretation.
      " I shall not give him anything," said Butler severely
 to me. " Oh yes, I will though," he added, and his eyes
 twinkled as he fumbled in his pocket. Then, with a very
 fair approach to Sicilian politeness, he handed the bad lira
 back to the old gentleman.
      The custode's face changed and changed again like a
 field of corn on a breezy morning. In spite of his
 archiepiscopal appearance he would have been contented
 with a few soldi ; seeing a whole lira he beamed with
 delight ; then, detecting its badness, his countenance fell
 and he began to object ; almost immediately he identified
 it as his own coin and was on the point of bursting with rage
 but, suddenly realising that he could have nothing to say,
 he laughed heartily, shook hands with both of us, and
 apologised for not being able to leave his post as he would
 so much have liked to drink a glass of wine with us.
      " There, now we have made another friend for life,"
 said Butler as we drove away. " This comes of doing the
 right thing. We must really be more careful. It is
 another illustration of what I am so constantly telling you ;

 16                  FAITH IN GOD                         xxiv
this is the sort of thing that must have been in the
 Apostle's mind when he said that about all things working
 together for good to them that love God."
     All through his life, whatever he was engaged upon,
whether it was an apparently trivial matter or one
apparently of the first importance—whether at Palermo
he was paying back the custode in his own coin, or in The
Fair Haven paying back the cashiers of the musical banks
in an ironical imitation of their own coin—nothing ever
shook his belief that if a man loves God he cannot come
to much harm. We may not always know very clearly
what is meant by God, and things may not always work
together for the particular kind of good that we desire ;
but there is " a something as yet but darkly known which
makes right right and wrong wrong," and no man can
ultimately fail who obeys the dictates of that voice which
we can all hear within us if we will but listen. But he
must obey without regard to theological dogmas or social
conventions ; he must never allow mistakes to dishearten
him—mistakes made in good faith will teach him more
than anything else ; and he must never grow weary of
taking pains. Then each difficulty will vanish like a
morning mist, and his next step will be made clear.
    Alethea realised that Ernest had this faith and that he
was the sort of boy who would act steadfastly upon it,
therefore she left him her money ; and this led to Ernest's
experiencing the trial of wealth, as well as that of poverty,
and affected the particular form of his final success. But
if he had had no Aunt Alethea, or if Edward Overton had
lost the money, that would only have given rise to different
incidents and, after some other trials, some other kind of
happiness would have been reached in the end.
    Had Butler re-written the book he might have thought
it worth while to emphasise Ernest's final success and
happiness which, it may be, is presented in a form that
may strike some readers as not unlike failure. But I do
not think he would have altered it, for we all know that
happiness consists in doing what a man likes and not in
doing what other people think he ought to like. Writing
about his own literary position in 1893 he said :

 XXIV                      HAPPINESS                              17
     I should have liked notoriety and financial success well enough
if they could have been had for the asking, but I was not going to
take any trouble about them and, as a natural consequence, I did
not get them. If I had wanted them with the same passionate
longing that has led me to pursue every inquiry that I have
pursued, I should have got them fast enough. It is very rarely
that I have failed to get what I have really tried for and, as a
matter of fact, I believe I have been a great deal happier for not
trying than I should have been if I had had notoriety thrust
upon me.
      And so, having made Ernest as like himself as he
could, he left him in the happy position of being free, like
himself, to do and say the things he considered best worth
doing and saying.
    VOL. II

                              CHAPTER XXV
                                1885—Part II.   1886
                             LUCK OR CUNNING?
  18*5 It must have been in June 1885 that some one sent
Act. 49 gutier a COpy of 7/ Dovere (a Ticinese newspaper) for
        29th May, in which there was a reference to Alps and
        Sanctuaries, speaking of the author as a " ricco milionario."
        Butler made a note about how he brought this up to my
        chambers one morning, as he was on his way to the
        Museum, and began reading it to me. On arriving at
        the " rich millionaire " he stopped, and this is how his note
        proceeds :
            At this point I could read no more. Fancy the growth of
        myth investing me with money ! I was in Jones's sitting-room.
        Jones was in his bedroom finishing dressing. Ann [Jones's
        laundress] was preparing his breakfast in the pantry. I laughed
        rather dryly and said :
            "The gentleman who wrote that does not do my washing."
            Ann heard this in the pantry and laughed, for she does my
        washing and knew what I meant.
            " But," I continued, " my clothes are not worn out j they
        are only tired—they are only inexpressibly weary."
                              Ann and my Clothes
            Ann, Jones's laundress, now does my washing. I could not
        get my things properly mended, and for want of this they got
        more and more ragged. Then Mrs. Doncaster took to washing
        for me ; and this meant that she did not wash, but stuffed all my
        clothes into the dirty-clothes bag and let them lie there till, at
        the latest possible moment, she took from the top what would just
        do for Sunday and left the rest where they were. I remonstrated,
                                         18

XXV                   EDWARD CLODD                               19
 but the poor woman had more than she could do, and at last 1885
 I struck and insisted that Ann should run my washing and Aet. 49
 mending. Ann told Jones she found my things so ragged that
 she was ashamed to send them to her own mangier, but sent the
 boy with them to a mangier who did not know her name and
 address. She told Jones not to tell me, but he told me. It is all
 the fault of my books and of their reviewers that I put off
 getting new things until the last possible moment. [1885.]
      In reply to a general invitation from Mr. Edward
 Clodd, Butler proposed to go and see him on a Sunday
 evening at the end of June. Clodd replied accepting the
 proposal, and telling Butler that he would meet Grant
 Allen, who was to call on Holman Hunt in the afternoon
 but would be at Clodd's in the evening. Butler, thinking
 it better to prepare Clodd for the possibility of the
 meeting between himself and Grant Allen not being very
 cordial, wrote a letter of which he kept a copy that has no
 date. Here is the letter, followed by a letter to Miss
 Butler, and two notes arising out of or connected with the
 episode.
                  Butler to Mr. Edward Clodd.
     Dear Clodd—Grant Allen and I are both very good sort of
people in our different ways, but the world is wide enough to let
 us, perhaps, do wisely in keeping out of each other's reach. We
have each given the other cause to complain, I in saying that
Grant Allen wrote an article which he did not sign, and he in
writing the article in question. I consider myself justified—so,
doubtless, and very likely with more reason, does he ; but I am
afraid of him, and don't want to meet him ;' besides he will have
been to see Holman Hunt, and what good can I expect from a
person who goes to see Holman Hunt ?
     I went by the Glen Rosa to Clacton-on-Sea yesterday and did
not get back till 10 o'clock, so had no means of communicating
with you sooner or I would have done so.—Believe me, yours
truly,                                                S. Butler.
                      Butler to Miss Butler.
     30 June 1885—I went to an old acquaintance's on Sunday
evening, or should have written then. He [Mr. Edward Clodd]
is secretary to the Joint Stock Bank of London and writes mildly
broad-church books. He had made what I am sure was a plant

        20                           GRANT ALLEN                                       xxv
  1885 to bring me and one of my particular foes, Grant Allen, together.
Aet. ^9 I had said I would go and late on Saturday night—too late for me
        to get out of it—Grant Allen was sprung upon me as to be of
        the company, so I must either make a good deal of fuss or go and
        be civil. Of course the second alternative was the proper one ; at
        the same time I did not like it, for Grant Allen had behaved
        badly by me and I had given it to him pretty hot in one of my
        books. However, I went and did the thing handsomely, assuring
        him how glad I was to have the pleasure of meeting him and
        behaving as though there never had been the smallest row of any
         kind between us. This is literary etiquette and, to do him
        justice, he behaved very well too, so it all went off smoothly.
         There were a lot of other literary (and scientific) people there, and
        I derived more of an impression that last year's Athenaeum row
        had been working than I have done on any occasion since the
        row ; 1 but it disgusted me to hear Grant Allen praise Evolution
         Old and New so warmly, and say of what great use he had found
        it and all the rest of it—which indeed is true, for it has appeared
        clearly enough in his books—and to remember that, when it came
        out, he laughed at it and sneered at it as "leaving the reader
        without a single clear idea upon any subject whatever " and did
        it more mischief than anyone else I know ; and all the time I had
        had his first book, his Colour Sense, submitted to me by Triibner in
        its sketch state, and did all I could to induce Trflbner to take it,
        which he did. However, what it comes to virtually is that
        Grant Allen wanted to make peace and I let him, and I daresay it
        is as well.
                                       Grant Allen
             When I met him at Clodd's a year ago, Bates the naturalist
        was there ; he * would hardly speak to me, marking displeasure in
        ways I could not misunderstand ; and when I tried to say good
        night to him along with the others he would not let me. It was
        all done very quietly, but I do not doubt my interpretation of his
        manner. He repeatedly spoke of Darwin's brilliant discovery of
        natural selection, and if he knew no better than what he said, he
        was simply an old fool. His displeasure with me was doubtless
        for my attack on Darwin.
             Grant Allen said innocently :
             " I wonder whether Darwin was in any way influenced by
        the works of his grandfather."
            1 By the "row " he means the correspondence that followed the Athenaeum review
        of Romanes's Mental Evolution in Anhnals, ante, I. 409, 410.
            * This is the note as Butler left it ; it is not clear whether "he" means Grant
        Allen or Bates ; I think it means Bates.

xxv       "THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD"                              21
    This was to draw me, and I at once replied, "I can only 1885
speak from my own experience. To me it seems inconceivable Aet. 49
that anyone should pay the smallest attention to anything that
had been written by his grandfather."
    I blurted this out with more or less of a wry face, and they
laughed, whereon the subject dropped. [May 1886.]
                      Holman Hunt again
    I have unintentionally run up against this gentleman, I mean
in the spirit, more than once lately. Last night I dined at Mrs.
Tylor's, and she told us how Holman Hunt had called on them
one winter's afternoon, and had been talking of his picture, " The
Light of the World," and the house in which it was painted.
    "How I should like," he exclaimed, "to see that house
again."
    Then they asked him where it was, and when he told them
they found it belonged to them and was now untenanted.
    " So off we all went," said Mrs. Tylor in her most reginal
manner, " then and there, and got to Chelsea " (I suppose from
Queen Anne's Gate) "soon after dark. And then we could not
get the keys, and we remembered that they were at Mr. Morse's
and they had to be fetched ; and then, when at last they came,
we could not unlock the door ; so we caught a little street boy
and put him over the wall and he got into the house and let us
in ; and then Holman Hunt led the way holding a lanthorn in
his hand, looking —oh so like 'The Light of the World,' you
know—his own picture" ("Just as though," I thought to
myself, "Holman Hunt would miss a point like that. Doubtless
he said to himself, 'Now they are thinking I am so like "The
Light of the World'""). "And he led the way upstairs and
brought us to the room in which he had painted his great
picture ; and there, in that very room, he gave us the history of
his whole past career as an artist."
    " And were there any chairs in the room ? " I thought
irreverently ; but of course I said how interesting it must have
been. [July 1885.]
     The epithet " reginal " covers an allusion to the fact
that Mrs. Tylor was an intimate personal friend of
Queen Victoria. Mr. Sydney Morse, Mrs. Tylor's son-
in-law, being a solicitor, the keys of the house were, I
suppose, with him in the course of business.
     About this time Thomas Butler's effects were arriving
from Corsica.

        22              A TRAVELLING LIBRARY
                          Butler to Mrs. Thomas Butler.
  1885       2 July 1885—Fancy a library consisting of a Bible, a botany
Aet. 49 book, and an Erewhon ! [These were all the books in my
        brother's possession at the time of his death.—S. B., Feb. nth,
        1902.] Three more respectable volumes it would be hard to
        find. The botany book is the only one against which a shadow
        of complaint can be raised, and I should fear Tom studied it
        more than either of the other two ; but even a botany book is
        only bizarre, it is not defendu.
                               Butler to Miss Butler.
             24 July 1885 . . . You will gather from this that I am having
        my great annual tidying and cleaning up. I generally do this on
        my return from abroad, but this year have taken it into my head
        that I shall enjoy my outing better if I feel that I have left
        everything very trim and shipshape. You know it was said that
        no one could be as wise as Lord Thurlow looked. I want it to be
        that no rooms can look as tidy as mine are. Among other things
        I am arranging in proper order and dating poor Miss Savage's
        letters and as many of mine to her as have reached me. This
        is a very painful business, but no one can do it except me, and
        the letters must have all the care that I can bestow upon them.
        I should burn mine to her but they explain hers so much—when
        there are any—that I cannot do this.
              After his tidying up he went abroad. He crossed
        the S. Bernardino to Bellinzona and wrote to his sister
         (23rd August 1885) that he had lunched in company with
         the monk who was parroco of Soazza :
             I knew him and laughingly reminded him of how he would
         not let me finish a sketch on a festa and I had to go away without
         finishing it. He had heard of Alps and Sanctuaries and wanted
         me to send a copy to Soazza. I again laughed and said I would
        only send one on condition that he would let me make a sketch
        on a Sunday. He saw he was caught and gave me a pinch of
         snuff at once.
             " Io dico niente," he said laughing, " ma siamo intesi."
             So I suppose I must send him a copy.
              From Bellinzona Butler went to Arona, but the
         family who used to keep the hotel there had removed to
         Florence, so he could not salute Isabella. Thence he went
        to Varallo-Sesia.

xxv          "THE PENCIL OF HARBLOT"                               23
                       Butler to H. F: Jones.
                                       Croce Bianca, Varallo-Sesia.   1M5
     15 July 1885—I think you saw the passage from which the Aet" *
following is translated ; I have had the piece of newspaper in my
pocket these three years and only translated it yesterday ; the
translation runs :
    "Mr. Harblot Browne has died in London at the age of
60 after having enjoyed twenty years of exceptional popularity
throughout the whole of England. This admirable artist achieved
his first successes under the pseudonym of Fix which he adopted
 while illustrating the works of Dickens when the author of
 David Copperfield was still writing under the name of Box.
    " The pencil of Harblot was of the greatest assistance to Box ;
those who have observed it in Pikwik, Nicholas Nicileby, David
Copperfield and in many another work, will be of one mind as to
the artistic taste and, above all, the fidelity to nature with which
Harblot portrayed the characters of the great novelist."
    To this I have added the commentary :
    " One feels as though some book on evolution was being
reviewed by Mr. Grant Allen, Mr. G. J. Romanes, Professor
Huxley, Miss Julia Wedgwood, Miss Edith Simcox, or indeed by
any of our more prolific and thoughtful magazine writers."
    I will put this into my next Italian book.
     Miss Bertha Thomas and Miss Helen Zimmern were
at Varallo, and they and Butler were the only foreigners
present at the festa in honour of the fourth centenary
of the birth of Gaudenzio Ferrari. There were proces
sions, bands, flags, illuminations, and fireworks, and Miss
Thomas sent to The Times a short notice of the proceed
ings, which gave great pleasure in the town, and was for
years afterwards, and perhaps is still, referred to as "lo
stupendo articolo."
                       Butler to H. F. Jones.
                             Hotel Croce Bianca, Varallo-Sesia.
    26 Aug. 1885—I went up to the Sacro Monte and heard the
requiem in the church there. I went under compulsion and
expected the usual thing ; I was, however, surprised to find how
good the music was. The orchestra played very well, there was
nothing harsh about it, all went excellently ; there was not a

        24                   ANTONIO CAGNONI                             xxv
  1885 trace of modern opera and, though there were no set choruses or
Aet. 49 airs developed to any length, yet he [the composer] was all along
        exposing fugues at every touch and turn and giving one the
        impression that his sympathies were with the old school. I was
        astounded and very much interested. The composer, a certain
        Antonio Cagnoni of Novara,- conducted ; so did the first violin.
        Cagnoni faced the audience and, though beating time—much
        more beautifully than I ever saw time beaten before—rarely even
        looked at the orchestra. The first violin beat with his bow,
        whenever not actually playing, and was all the time running the
        orchestra. Cagnoni moved very little and never changed his
        expression while conducting. He did everything with his hands
        and nothing with face or body ; but I never saw anyone get so
        much out of his hands before. The music did not anywhere
        bore me and, in fact, I was surprised and interested throughout.
        He used what I thought was a piece of common deal a foot long,
        two and a half inches broad, and half an inch thick, to conduct
        with. I had myself introduced to him and requested him tc
        present me with his baton, having endeavoured first to enquire
        whether he had any special regard for it. He did not understand
        this and could not see my drift ; at any rate he was very much
        pleased when he came to see that I wanted his baton as a token
        of respect ; of course I chiefly wanted it to show you, but that
        was not how I put it. I find it is some old newspapers folded up
         pretty tight and wrapped round with silk. It looked exactly like
        a piece of common rough deal. I sent him our Ga-Oottes at once.
              I hear that the Pope has just lately issued an edict absolutely
         forbidding masses to be written in the operatic style. Miss
         Zimmern saw this in the Corriere delta Sera, but I should think
         this mass was written before the edict. The Pope's edict, how
         ever, ought to have rather interesting results.
                                Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                               Crock Bianca, Varallo-Sesia.
               31 Aug. 1885—I think I told you about the requiem and
          how I raped Cagnoni's baton. The sindaco wrote a letter to the
          Val-Sesia about it and informed them that after the mass the
          English "giornalista S. Buttler,"wishing to show his appreciation
         of Cagnoni's music, asked him for the solfa he had used in
          conducting, and that the maestro communicated the request at
          once to the cathedral chapter of Novara, to whom the solfa
          belonged, and they, signifying their consent, he gave the solfa
          " di buon grado." So it was a great success ; Cagnoni and
          everyone was very much pleased and I have got the baton, which

XXV                "OUR FAIR FRIEND"                             25
I like all the better for being the cathedral one. I take it to be 1885
two old newspapers wrapped round in linen and silk. It is very Aet. 49
dirty. . . .
      By the way, Cagnoni sent a note acknowledging receipt of
our Gavottes ; he had not yet had time to examine them but, on
the cursory inspection he had alone been able to give them before
writing, he thought them excellent—which is much what people
say of our music in England, only more politely put.
      Antonio Cagnoni (1 828-1 896) made his first success
as a writer of comic opera. Grove's Dictionary gives a
list of 17 operas composed by him of which one, Papa
Martin, was performed by Carl Rosa at the Lyceum
Theatre, London, in 1875 as The Porter of Havre.
After becoming maestro di cappella in the cathedral and
director of the Istituto Musicale at Novara he wrote
nothing but sacred music. He went from Novara to
Bergamo where he died.
                        Butler to H. F. Jones.
                               Hotel Riposo, Sacro Monte, Varesb.
      8 Sept. 1885—I got to Varese town on Sunday night and on
 here next morning. As usual it is a festa. ... I bought three
 little watch-glass things, like those we broke, one for me, one
 for you, and one in case we break one. I got one down below
 and the other two from our fair friend up at the top ; she knew
 me and made such a fuss, and immediately asked after you ; and
 she charged me 1 fr. 25 c. apiece for what were selling down
 below for 1 fr., but she did it all so beautifully that it was well
 worth the 25 centimes.
       " Our fair friend " was a beautiful woman, one of
 those who sell religious knicknacks just outside the town
 on the top of the Sacro Monte, and the "little watch-
 glass things" were among her stock—a pair of watch-
 glasses fastened together like oyster-shells with a strip
 of gilded paper round the edges, the oyster being a
 representation of the Madonna among coloured flowers.
 This lady was so extremely innocent that she frequently
 made mistakes about the change, hardly knowing one
coin from another ; but the mistakes usually happened to
be in her own favour. One year Butler told her that she

    26                PROSE OR POETRY ?                         XXV
s had lost none of her beauty, and she rejoined that there
49 were few " tanto buoni e carini e gentili come Lei."
         She and Butler once had a theological discussion.
   She thought that every one, sensible or otherwise, was of
   the same religion. Butler objected that this was not so,
   that some, for instance, were Turks.
        " E Turco Lei ? " (Are you a Turk ?) inquired our
   fair friend with a look as though—well, anyhow there
   could be no harm in asking. But he was not thinking of
   making any addition to his harem at the time, so he
   excused himself and brought the interview to a close.
        This lady was to have been introduced into the second
   Italian book. He also intended to fall asleep and have
   a dream in front of the chapel that contains the figures
   representing Christ disputing with the Doctors. We
   had often wondered what the dispute was all about ; in
   his dream the Doctors were to propound this question :
         " Which is best—prose or poetry ? "
        And Christ, ticking off" the alternatives on his fingers,
   as Italians do, was to be heard giving His decision :
         "Poetry, because there is less of it on a page."
        Early in September I joined Butler on the Sacro
    Monte, and we went down to Milan where we spent some
   hours in the Brera trying to settle a point which interested
   him intensely. He thought he had discovered portraits
   of Giovanni and Gentile Bellini among the heads of
   onlookers in various pictures, and had promised the
   editor of The Athenaeum to write about it in his paper.
                        Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
        19 Sept. 1885—I thought matters were as I supposed, but
   did not like to write [to The Athenaeum] without making notes
   on the spot with the pictures before me ; for though I believe I
   may say no one has done much more to glorify memory than
   I have, I find my own memory most unglorifiable, and to stand
   in need of continual verification and correction. However, I am
   all right this time, and how the portraits in question can have
  escaped notice so long I cannot conceive. I spotted them at once
   fourteen years ago and thought everyone else must have done so.
  I have repeatedly seen them since and this time, approaching them

XXV                         LOSING CATS                              27
very sceptically, still can see no escape from the conclusion I 1885
arrived at in the first instance, namely that the two adjacent heads Aet. 49
in the two separate pictures in the Brera are the same as the two
in the Louvre picture of Giovanni and Gentile Bellini.
      After Milan we joined my mother and sisters at
Vicenza and with them went to Venice, where Butler spent
 much time searching the pictures for more examples of
the heads of the Bellini. He returned by way of Basel
 where he made some progress with the copy he had begun
 of the Holbein water-colour, " La Danse," and convinced
 the director from internal evidence of the manner in which
 the folds of drapery were drawn that it was an original
 Holbein and not a copy. He wrote to me : " So I have
 given the Basel Museum a Holbein as I mean to give the
 Louvre a Titian to-morrow." In his next letter, however
 (3rd October 1885), he wrote: "I could not give the
 Louvre a Titian, because as soon as I saw the picture I
 saw it was not by him." It was a picture of two heads
 which he thought represented the Bellini, and he interested
 the keeper in the subject. " We both think the picture
 rightly ascribed to Gentile Bellini."
                          Butler to Miss Butler.
                                                15 Clifford's Inn, E.C
      21 Oct. 1885 —No, I will not have any Persian cat; it is
 undertaking too much responsibility. I must have a cat whom I
 find homeless, wandering about the court, and to whom, therefore,
  I am under no obligation. There is a Clifford's Inn euphemism
 about cats which the laundresses use quite gravely : they say
  people come to this place "to lose their cats." They mean that,
 when they have a cat they don't want to kill and don't know how
  to get rid of, they bring it here, drop it inside the railings of
 our grass-plot, and go away under the impression that they have
  been " losing " their cat. Well, this happens very frequently and
  I have already selected a dirty little drunken wretch of a kitten
  to be successor to my poor old cat. I don't suppose it drinks
  anything stronger than milk and water but then, you know, so
  much milk and water must be bad for a kitten that age—at any
  rate it looks as if it drank ; but it gives me the impression of being
  affectionate, intelligent, and fond of mice, and I believe, if it had
  a home, it would become more respectable ; at any rate I will see
  how it works.

         28                       QUILL PENS                              xxv
  188549 handsome
Aet.                  Allen has broughtofout
              Grant acknowledgment          Evolution
                                               his Darwin
                                                       Old and    has made
                                                             and New   in hisa
         preface. . . .
              Last night Jones and I both went to dine with Miss Bertha
         Thomas, a pranzo sociale, to meet Miss Zimmern, play Narcissus,
         and talk. Italy. It was very pleasant.
             Also I have at last done what I have threatened for some time
         past, and bought one of these new and cheaper Columbia type
         writers. I cannot yet write as fast with it as with the pen but,
         even now, it is a great comfort. It saves all fatigue of eye and
         then one can see so well what one has got. I have only had it a
         week, but I already feel I should be lost without it ; and it will
         save its cost twice over in a single book, for I can see my book in
         type before sending it to the press and correct it so much better
         that I ought to have very little correction in future to pay for.
               But he did not use the typewriter for writing his books
         in the first instance ; it would have been impossible to use
         it in the British Museum Reading Room ; it was kept for
         copying. This development of the machinery of writing
         reminds me of a note Butler made in 1883 :
                               Steel and Quill Pens
              It is only during the last ten years or so that quill pens have
         quite gone out. I wrote Ercwhon and The Fair Haven with
         quill pens, but no book since.
                         Grant Allen's Charles Darwin
              In October 1885 Mr. Charles Archer Cook, who was editing
          The Athenaeum during MacColl's absence, asked me to review
         Grant Allen's Charles Darwin. I have no doubt MacColl had
         told him to offer it to me. I immediately declined on the ground
         that there was too strong a personal hostility between myself and
         both Darwin and Grant Allen to make it possible for me to
         review the book without a bias against it. Besides I do not
         review books. I belong to the reviewed classes, not to the
         reviewers. I am pleased to observe that, as I would not review
         the book, The Athenaeum has not reviewed it at all, unless of
         course a review has escaped me.
               At the end of this year appeared Charles Darwin by
         Dr. Ernst Krause (Leipzig, 1885). It contains on pp.
         185-186 Dr. Krause's account of the dispute which led to

 xxv                ADAPTING ONESELF                             29
 the writing of chapter iv. of Unconscious Memory. A 1885
 translation by Butler of this passage in Dr. Krause's book,         JO
 followed by his comment on it, is given in an Appendix
 post.
                        Butler to Miss Butler.
     29 Dec. 1885—Please ask my father if he remembers a line
 in Horace, " Nee mihi res, sed me rebus componere. . . ." Does he
 remember the last word ? It sounds as if it ought to be " conor ",
 but I have a half fancy that the " o " in " conor " may be
 short j if he remembers, ask him to supply the missing word ; if
 he doesn't, I will look through the Epistles and Satires of Horace.
 I want the passage as summing up the Lamarckian system,
 according to which modification is effected by animals and plants
 adapting themselves to their surroundings as well as they can and,
 as the surroundings gradually change, changing too.
                         Butler to his Father.
     31 Dec. 1885—I thank you for your kindness in trying to
 find my line. I thought the "o" in "conor" was long, but
 have generally found that when I feel pretty sure a vowel is long
 it turns out short, and I could not remember a passage with the
 word in it. On receipt of yours I took out my small Horace,
 intending to look through the Epistles and find the line, which
 had been kind enough to place itself within the first 25 lines
 of the First Epistle of the First Book. I had it all wrong—the
 passage runs :
             Nunc in Aristippi furtim praecepta relabor,
              Et mihi res, non me rebus subiungcre conor.
 So he does the exact opposite of what I want him to do. How
 ever, he evidently disapproves of what he is doing, and acknow
 ledges the normal and proper thing to be the trying to adapt self
 to circumstances, rather than circumstances to self, and this is
 what I want. Of course in real life we do both as much as we
 can and bear with what we cannot change ; still I think there is
 a decided balance in favour of adaptation of self to things rather
 than of things to self; this, if Lamarck's view is right, pervades
 the whole animal kingdom and underlies all modification.
                        Butler to Miss Butler.
      18 Jan. 1886—We were much shocked yesterday to find
that a poor old man who keeps a public-house near Dartford,

        30         TRYING FOR A PROFESSORSHIP                            xxv
  1886 where we generally take our beer with our sandwiches when we
Aet. 50 are in that neighbourhood, had been horribly murdered by a
        discharged soldier about ten days ago. The soldier murdered a
        customer, who was sitting before the fire, and then murdered the
        landlord apparently without any reason. He was apprehended
        immediately.
             A man named Vianna de Lima has been writing a book in
        French, Les Theories Transformistes de Lamarck, Darwin, et
        Haeckel. It is only just out, but the Museum had received it and
        got it for me before it has appeared in the catalogue. I was
        pleased to find a perfectly satisfactory and unsnubbing reference
        to Life and Habit as though to quite a standard book—so I set
        this off against The Athenaeum and Dr. Krause.
            I am getting on fast with my book which I shall call Luck
       or Cunning as the most important means of Organic Modification ?
       The short title will be Luck or Cunning ? which I think will do
        very well.
                               Butler to his Father.
            5 Feb. 1886—I send a few lines to say that I am trying for
        the Slade Professorship of Art at Cambridge, vacant by the
        resignation of Mr. Sidney Colvin. The post would exactly suit
        me, as residence is not required and 12 lectures a year is all that I
        should have to give. I don't see why I should not try for this ;
       so I went down [to Cambridge] yesterday and interviewed
        Kennedy and one or two more. I must not canvass, so I could
        not see any of the electors. I don't suppose I shall get it, but I
       am doing all I can.
            I went to The Athenaeum and said they had had my letter
       [about the Bellini heads] long enough, that I was trying for this
        Professorship, that it would be an advantage to me to have my
       letter published somewhere at once, and that if they could not
        print it I should be glad if they would return it so that I could
        bring it before the public elsewhere.
             Butler's letter or article about the Bellini heads
       appeared in The Athenaeum, 20th February 1886. His
       points were shortly as follows :
             There is in the Louvre a picture of two heads of
       young men which, on the authority of a passage in
       F61ibien, written in 1666 and quoted in the 1865
       catalogue of the Louvre, was stated to be the work of
       Gentile Bellini and to represent the painter and his
        brother Giovanni. Crowe and Cavalcaselle, in their

XXV                      THE BELLINI HEADS                                       31
History of Painting in North Italy (ed. 1871, vol. I. p. 134), '8«6
incline to the opinion that the picture is by Cariani.                                Aet. J0
      Gentile Bellini died in 1501, aged 80, and Giovanni
Bellini died in 15 16, aged 90.1 Cariani was born between
these two dates, viz. in 15 10, and it is unlikely that he
should have painted Giovanni and Gentile Bellini as young
men.
      Felibien was born in 16 19 when there were still living
many who had known Titian, for Titian had died only
forty-three years before, viz. in 1576. Titian, who was
 99 when he died, had been a pupil of Giovanni. Felibien
makes his statement as though it were an ascertained fact,
and he would be likely to hear anything that was known
about the picture.
      Butler thought that Felibien was right, that the
picture was painted by Gentile Bellini, and that it repre
sented Gentile and his brother Giovanni.
      He searched for other contemporary portraits of the
two brothers. Gentile Bellini bequeathed to his younger
brother, Giovanni, the sketch-book of their father, Jacopo,
on condition that he should finish his great picture of " St.
 Mark preaching at Alexandria." Giovanni finished his
brother's picture and it hangs in the Brera at Milan. To
the extreme left among the spectators Butler found two
figures, one with the auburn-haired head of the elder of
the two portraits in the Louvre, and next him—the head
alone being shown—the black-haired man of the Louvre
picture. The likenesses are strong and unmistakeable.
It is probable that the portraits of the two brothers should
appear among the portraits of men of the time with which
the picture is crowded, and that they should appear as the
two figures to the extreme left.
      Butler found the same two heads in Carpaccio's
" Dispute of St. Stephen," also in the Brera ; they are the
two penultimate bystanders to the right of the picture,
and immediately to the right of a head something like
Mr. Gladstone's.
      In the first fresco by Titian, as one enters the Scuola
    1 Some of the dates here quoted are given differently in some of the authorities,
but the difference* are not great enough to affect Butler's argument.

         32              THE BELLINI HEADS                          xxv
  1886 di S. Antonio at Padua on the right, are two heads—a
Act. 50 yellow-red-haired man and a black-haired man—which
        might be portraits of the Bellini, but they are not distinct
        enough for one to feel very sure about them.
             Butler's friend and fellow art-student, Thomas Ballard,
        afterwards pointed out that two heads in " The Circum
        cision," dated 1500, by Marco Marziale, in our National
        Gallery are also strongly suggestive of the two heads in
        the Louvre. They are the two heads on the right of the
        central group, one of them partly hidden by the hood of
        the priest. One is that of a yellow-red-haired, fair-
        complexioned, square-faced man with a rather straight
        nose ; the other is an oval- faced, black -haired, dark-
        complexioned man with a nose the bridge of which is
        convex. They are badly painted, but the onerous con
        ditions, on the combined fulfilment of which we may
        suspect that the portraits of the Bellini are intended, are
        all complied with, namely : the picture is Venetian,
        painted between 1460 and 1520, and gives us two men
        side by side with all the characteristics which we have
        reason to believe were those of Giovanni and Gentile
        Bellini.
             Butler had searched all the possible pictures in Venice,
        and in every likely place, for further examples of these
        two heads but had found no more. He considered,
        however, that what he had found was in support of the
        old belief held by Felibien, and against the view of Crowe
        and Cavalcaselle, of whom an eminent French authority
        said to him : " lis ont debaptise la moitie des tableaux
        d'Europe."      The authorities at the Louvre, in their
        catalogue of 1887, gave the picture to Gentile Bellini as
        painter, and on the frame it is still attributed to him, but
       it is not said to be portraits of the two brothers, it is called
        " Portraits d'hommes," at least it was so when last I was
        in the Louvre, that is in May 19 14.
             No one said anything in reply to his letter in The
        Athenaeum. He sent a copy of the paper to the director
        of the Louvre. One result of the delay in publishing the
        letter was that it appeared just in time for him to send a
        copy of the paper to the electors for the Slade Professor

 xxv         THE SLADE PROFESSORSHIP                            33
 ship. The testimonials he sent were from Eyre Crowe, 18S6
 Esq., A.R.A. ; G. K. Fortescue, Esq., Superintendent of Aet*°
the Reading Room, British Museum ; Richard Garnett,
Esq., LL.D., late Superintendent of the Reading Room,
 British Museum ; A. C. Gow, Esq., A.R.A. ; T.
 Heatherley, Esq., of the School of Art, 79 Newman
Street, Oxford Street ; the Rev. B. H. Kennedy, D.D.,
 Regius Professor of Greek at the University of Cambridge ;
H. S. Marks, Esq., R.A. ; and the Right Honourable
W. T. Marriott, M.P. They were all of the usual kind,
speaking highly of his artistic and literary attainments,
saying the writers had known him some time and con
sidered him eminently fitted for the post. With the
testimonials he sent a list of his published works.
                       Butler to his Father.
     10 March 1886—You will doubtless have seen in this
morning's papers that Middleton has got the Professorship.
Practically he was, so far as I have been able to make out, in the
field before the late Professor resigned, and was his candidate, so
to speak. I am glad I stood and, having stood, am, of course,
sorry not to have got the post ; still there are consolatory con
siderations which are not without healing value, and I had so
fully discounted not getting it, after what I heard the Editor of
The Athenaeum had said and what Garnett said, that I am not put
much out of my reckoning and, indeed, should have been very
much surprised if anyone but Middleton had been appointed.
Nevertheless, I feel sure that I shall gain by having stood.
     One cannot help wondering how it would have
worked if Butler had been elected Slade Professor. His
lectures would have been delightful to attend and to read
afterwards, and, with his immense knowledge and critical
insight, full of instruction, good sense, and amusement.
But I doubt whether he would have given complete satis
faction to the authorities. A University is hardly the
most favourable soil in which to sow those seeds which,
when writing about art, he scattered freely in his Note-
Books, in Alps and Sanctuaries, in Ex Voto, and up and
down others of his books.
     VOL. II                                                 D

         34                A NEW AMUSEMENT                             XXV
                               Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
  i886        15 March 1886—I have had many very kind letters about my
Aet. 50 failure and really believe a good many people think I ought to
        have had it. I am afraid I believe that the whole thing was cut
        and dried before Colvin resigned.
             I thought it would be well to come up smiling, so I got
        The Athenaeum last week to announce my new book Luck or
        Cunning ? which they did. I was pleased to see that they put
        it well up among their Science news, not among the Literary
        events. This, as I have no doubt the editor knows, will be
        displeasing to Romanes & Co. The book is well advanced and
        is, I believe, among the very best I have done. . . .
             1 have found a new amusement. My poor old laundress and
        her husband are so deplorably bronchitic and ill that they cannot
        do what ought to be done to my rooms, so I have shifted piano,
        table and everything, cleaned my windows, swept every corner of
        every room with tea-leaves, and done the thing as it ought to be
        done. I found it hard work ; it made me perspire freely, notwith
        standing the cold, and did me a great deal of good ; besides I am
        now really clean and tidy instead of being a good deal off clean—
        to put it mildly. I think I shall do it again.
                               Butler to Miss Butler.
             24 March 1886—My kittens came and alas, went ! One
       after another died for want of sufficient nourishment. This being
       their poor mother's first confinement, she had forgotten to make
       the milk necessary to feed her offspring, and so one after another
       starved in spite of all I could do. I had fpund homes for three out
       of the four and was very sorry to lose them. They were ex
       ceedingly pretty while they lasted, but none of them lived as long
       as four days. The cat frequently came and told me that things
       were not going right, and I soon found out what the matter was,
       but I could not do anything.
                              Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
            2 April 1886—I congratulate May [Miss Butler] on making to
       herself friends of theMammon of Righteousness, as poor Miss Savage
       once said to me when I had been in a short correspondence with
       the Bishop of Carlisle. By the way, who was it said of Mr.
       Gladstone that he was " a good man in the very worst sense of the
       words"? . . .

                DEATH OF UNCLE JOHN
      Glad Uncle John is better. Did you ever read Philip Van 1886
  Artevelde ? And now I see Robert Bridges has been bringing A<*- 50
 out some poems. The extracts they give in the papers seem all
 right—quite as good as other poetry ; but I cannot read poetry
 and, indeed, read as little of anything as I can.
      Uncle John was John Worsley, the younger brother of
 Butler's mother. He was an eminent conveyancer and
 practised locally at Clifton. Although " better " early in
 April he only survived for a few weeks, and, like the
 aunt and godmother of Narcissus, " died richer than was
 thought," for he was of a saving nature. According to a
 note made by Butler, he never would wear a night-shirt ;
 he said it was an unnecessary expense, and slept naked. I
 met him one afternoon at tea at Reginald Worsley's. He
 remembered Mendelssohn, whom he had seen, probably at
 the Taylors', and who, he said, was " a dapper little man."
 He sang us an absurd, old-fashioned song with a refrain,
 " Vasdy proper ; vastly proper," or vasdy something
different at the end of each of its numerous verses. We
all thought it vasdy funny and laughed very much at it.
 I am afraid we also laughed a little at Uncle John.
      At the beginning of May, Butler went to Clifton
to attend Uncle John's funeral. This was one of the
occasions for wearing the high hat which appears in the
corner in the picture of his room (ante, I. p. 246). While
at Clifton, he took the opportunity of calling on his Aunt
Sarah Worsley, Uncle John's sister, and reported to
Wilderhope that he had done so, hoping he might have
succeeded in pleasing his father and sisters, especially as
at the funeral he was representing his father, who paid the
expenses of his journey to Clifton and back, being too
feeble to go in person. His report was, however, received
in silence, and he wrote that he was beginning to fear
that any credit he might have won by attending the
funeral was not of a lasting nature.
                     Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
     i^May 1886—Perhaps I should not have begun to fear this
if I did not find that in whatever quarter I may win a leaf or

         36                     AUNT SARAH                                xxv
  1886 two of laurels they are of a kind that tarnishes with deplorable
Aet. 50 rapidity. If I were to compare myself to a stock or railway
        share, I should say I was a security of a very fluctuating character,
        never more likely to enter upon a period of prolonged flatness
        than immediately after being buoyant ; but this, I suppose, is
        the common experience of mankind and, in depression, I must
        console myself by reflecting that, for aught I know, I may be
        again upon the verge of inflation.
             Aunt Sarah, for example ; she had a sudden and disastrous
        fall in my market during the ten minutes or so that I was with
        her. She was warm in her praises of Mr. Gladstone and abused
        " that wretched Times " for saying he did what he did merely from
        a wish to remain in office, etc. etc. " Why, it is contrary to the
        whole spirit and tenour of his life : a more upright, honourable,
        conscientious, truly high-minded statesman never existed, and to
        suppose— " etc. etc.
             If Aunt Sarahs at par are 100, they had stood at about 75
        when I began my visit ; when I ended it they had dropped to
        15 or 14J. Besides, she took occasion to impart to me her
        reminiscences of my childhood of which, it seems, my conceit
        had been the feature that had made the deepest impression upon
        her. I gathered moreover that she shared the common, but
        absurd, opinion according to which " the child is father of the
        man" (just as if everyone did not know that it is the other way
        on) and, altogether, I was not so glad that I had had "a little
        sight of Aunt Sarah " as you say you are on my behalf. Do you
        know, if anything were to happen to Uncle Sam (which I hope
        may not be the case for many years) I think I should have such
        a severe cold as to be unable to venture on a railway journey.
        But enough of this nonsense.
             What do you mean by saying my father is " about as well as
        usual again " ? I have not heard of his being unwell, nor did I
       gather from his letters that he had been in any way more amiss
       than usual. What is he thinking of doing about his summer
       outing ? . . .
             When you say you think Aunt Sarah " will have been " glad
       I called on her, do you mean that, though not glad at present,
       there will come a time, etc. etc. ? I greatly doubt whether she
       will ever be more glad than she is at present.
              Butler made a note on the not very successfully pressed
        copy of the above : " This stupid letter can be read quite
        easily by being held up to the light." I do not think it
        is a " stupid letter," but I do think it was an injudicious
        letter. Many of his letters to his sisters at this time

             REHEARSAL OF NARCISSUS                          37
contain passages complaining that they did not keep him
properly informed as to his father's health. This letter,
and especially the part about Mr. Gladstone, was his way
of saying to his sister, " If you won't tell me what I want
to know, then I shall only tell you things you don't
want to hear." For his father and sisters though they
approved of Aunt Sarah yet, being Conservative, dis
approved of her politics. There was no stopping him
from writing such letters when he was in the mood ;
and he excused himself by saying that his sisters must
see they were written in fun. I do not think it likely
that his sisters saw anything in them beyond deplorable
flippancy and irreverence.
     The letter contains so much about stocks and shares
partly because his mind was full of Narcissus. We had
made sufficient progress to have a rehearsal of some of
it on the 18 th of May in Gogin's studio in King Henry's
Road, followed by supper in the studio of another painter,
Joseph Benwell Clark, on the floor below.              Butler's
cousin, Reginald Worsley, who knew many violinists and
other players, got the band together for us and helped
us in copying the parts. He and Gogin rigged up the
desks and lights. We had three first violins, two second,
one tenor, one 'cello, and one double bass, one oboe, one
bassoon, one horn, and a pair of kettle-drums. Mr.
Henry Ellis Wooldridge kindly sang some of the songs
for us, and I conducted. Everything went off" quite
smoothly ; the performers expressed themselves as much
pleased with the music and so did the few friends we had
invited to come and listen. We learnt a great deal from
hearing our music and should have liked to have more
rehearsals.    Butler wrote to Miss Butler : " A tame
oratorio is a delightful pet, but he is something like a
tame elephant and would eat Jones and me out of house
and home if we did not keep him in his proper place."
                    Butler to Miss Butler.
    3 June 1886—Jones and I went to a Philharmonic concert
last night [cf. The Note-Books of Samuel Butler, p. 132]. We

         38             ULYSSES CONTEMPLATED                             xxv
 1 886 went to the shilling places behind the orchestra and sat close to
Act 50 the drums, so we could see each instrument and hear what it was
        about. I do wish people would not make their movements so
        long. We have resolved that all our movements shall be of
        reasonable length. I am afraid I liked our own music a great
        deal better than Beethoven's ; but then, of course, if we had been
        devoted admirers of Beethoven we should have founded ourselves
       on him and imitated him. Narcissus's successor is to be called
        Ulysses and is this time a serious work, dealing with the wanderings
       of the real Ulysses and treating the subject much as Hercules or
       Semele were treated. We think we could get some sailor choruses
       and some Circe and pig choruses and the Sirens, and then
        Penelope and her loom all afford scope. I made up my mind
       about it when I read Charles Lamb's translation of parts of the
        Odyssey in Ainger's book, but please don't say anything about it.
             In spite of this, however, when, one day in the
        British Museum, Mr. Garnett asked him what we thought
       of doing when we had finished Narcissus, Butler replied
       that we might, perhaps, next write an oratorio on some
       sacred subject. The urbane and scholarly Mr. Garnett
       looked proper and asked whether we had any particular
       subject in view. Butler replied, demurely, that we were
       thinking of "The Woman Taken in Adultery." His
       note concludes with these words : " Garnett did not quite
       like this."
            I find among Butler's letters one from Eyre Crowe,
       A.R.A., dated 3rd June 1886, thanking him for having
       written in reply to a request for any reminiscences he
       might have of F. S. Cary, in whose School of Art he
       had studied. At first I thought Eyre Crowe might have
       wanted Butler's reminiscences for some book of Memoirs
       he was writing, but he does not appear to have published
       one. It may be that he wanted it for a book by some one
       else and, if so, Butler's letter may have been published
       therein. He kept no copy, and if any reader of this book
       should know of its publication I should be glad to hear
       of it.
            I do not think that Butler had hitherto attended any
       of the Shrewsbury School dinners, but he went this year
       and made this note about it :

  «v             THE ISHMAELITISH LINE
                     The Shrewsbury Dinner
      This came off the week before last, and I was there ; the 1886
  Archbishop of York was in the chair, next to whom sat Lord Aet. 5°
  Cranbrook on the one hand and Kennedy on the other. I spoke
  to Kennedy before dinner, and found him surly, and, as it
  appeared to me, anxious to avoid me—which I no sooner per
  ceived than I avoided him. I thanked him genially for the
  testimonial he had given me when I was trying for the Slade
  Professorship (which however seemed to me to say "I have been
 asked to give this man a testimonial and have had to do it, but I
 will say no more than I can help ") and laughingly said that my
 candidature had not come to very much. " No, ' said he, drily,
 and with the intake and outmake of breath which used to
 characterise him when I knew him years ago. So I left him, I
 hope without showing that I did not think his manner over civil.
      I liked the Archbishop of York ; Lord Cranbrook seemed a
 good fellow ; Moss was civil to me ; Sir Henry Dryden made
 the best speech and the one which his audience evidently liked
 best. Canon Hornby looked good ; so did Archdeacon Hamilton.
There was a good old clergyman opposite me, a pupil of my
 grandfather's, who said, " Butler (meaning my grandfather) was as
 good a man as ever lived," and evidently meant what he said.
     Why should I, knowing that I do not particularly like these
 people nor they me, why should I, who never liked my school
 nor got much good from it, go and pay a guinea for a bad dinner,
and eat and drink what it takes me a whole day to recover from ?
 It does not seem a very sensible thing to do, and yet people tell
me I ought to go. I wish I knew whether they are right or I,       1
who think the whole thing a nuisance. I think that, considering
the Ishmaelitish line which I have been led and driven to take in
literature, the less I venture into the enemy's camp the better.
They say that the more I take the Ishmaelitish line the more
incumbent it is upon me to do the correctest of correct things
occasionally, when time and the occasion serve. I believe they
are right, and this is why I went, and shall hope to go upon a
future occasion, but like it I do not. [July 31, 1886.]
     P.S.—I have never missed a single one of these functions
since writing the above. [Feb. 1, 1898.]                           ;
                      Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
     it August 1886—I am to go presently to poor Robert's
funeral at the Tower Hamlets. Mrs. Doncaster is in a deplorable
and most depressing state with an awful cough and only fit for

        4o                           BISHOPS                             xx,
 1886 bed, but she will insist on coming out. Happily Robert had
Aet. 50 insured his life (in one of those infamous companies which—well,
        he had insured his life) and, having paid 4d. a week punctually for
        fourteen years (or about ^12 : 15 : o without counting interest),
        was entitled to receive £<) : 4 : o on his death, which Mrs.
        Doncaster has got and is not therefore in difficulties about funeral
        expenses and mourning. Mrs. Doncaster had insured her life also
        in the same way, but about five years ago I stopped her from
        continuing it, as they would not return a halfpenny if the policy
        was allowed to go thirteen weeks in arrear. I shall now see that
        she puts by sixpence a week in the post office savings bank.
             Robert's funeral provided another occasion for Butler
        to wear his high hat.
             A few days later he started for the Canton Ticino.
        This was the occasion when, at Faido, he met the Bishop
        of Chichester and one of the canons and showed them
        where to find Woodsia and Alternifolium, as is related in
        The Note-Books of Samuel Butler, 1912, p. 271. He
        moved to the Sacro Monte, Varese, where I joined him in
        September. We went to Castiglione d' Olona to see the
        frescoes and, while staying at Mendrisio, went over to
        Ligornetto, where we had been to spend the day with
        Signor Vela {Alps and Sanctuaries : " A Day at the
        Cantine "). We were only about a week together, because
        I had to spend some of my holiday with my mother at
        Baden Baden and return to the office. On his return
        Butler wrote to his sister.
                               Butler to Miss Butler.
                                                    15 Clifford's Inn, E.C.
            2 Oct. 1886—Thank you for yours received this morning.
        I am so glad you had a fine afternoon for your foundation-laying,
        and that the bishop was nice. I think bishops generally are
        rather nice. I know I am terribly afraid of an archdeacon or, I
        may say, of a dean, but am generally set quite at my ease by a
        bishop—when I have anything to do with one, which is not
        often. I stuck to my plan, spent Tuesday and Wednesday
        copying Holbein in Basel and, leaving Wednesday night, got
        here on Thursday evening. I found my kittens well and strong
        but as wild as little tigers through not having been habitually
        caressed. They spat and swore and altogether behaved abomin

           UNORTHODOX BUT RELIGIOUS
ably. Now, though only 48 hours have gone by, they are quite stS6
tame and very pretty. . . .                                         Aet. 5°
    I am to lecture at the Working Men's College in December
on The Principle Underlying the Subdivision of the Organic
World into Animal and Vegetable. I do not like it, but it is
good for me to learn the use of my tongue. I shall do as I did
before and speak my lecture, not read it.
    I am much better but have never been free of my book [Luck
or Cunning ?] which is now nearly printed. I have still to write
the last chapter, some fourteen or fifteen pages ; this I hope to
do next week, and then nothing remains but the index.
     The lecture was postponed and delivered in March
1887.
     Luck or Cunning ? was to be dedicated to the memory
of Alfred Tylor ; Butler therefore sent to Mrs. Tylor his
proposed preface and other preliminary matter of the
book for her to consider it and show it to any one she
might wish to consult.
                     Butler to Mrs. Tylor.
     17 Oct. 1886—When I said it [Luck or Cunning ?] was
polemical I only referred to Mr. Darwin, Professor Huxley, Mr.
Romanes and others. There is not the slightest fear of any
religious controversy in connection with the book, any more
than with Life and Habit or Evolution Old and New ; on the
contrary its very essence is to insist on the omnipresence of a
mind and intelligence throughout the universe to which no name
can be so fittingly applied as God. Orthodox the book is not,
religious I do verily believe and hope it is ; its whole scope is
directed against the present mindless, mechanical, materialistic
view of nature and, though I know very well that churchmen
will not like it, I am sure they will like it much better than they
like the opinions now most generally accepted, and that they will
like it much better than men of science will.
     However I send what I propose to say, and will call on you at
Carshalton either Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday as you may
appoint, say at about 3.30 and return by the 4.49 train from
Carshalton. I can then hear your views by word of mouth and
answer any further questions you may want to ask.
                     Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
     25 Oct. 1886—I heard a story of poor Mr. Tylor himself the
other day. He was one of the gentlest and kindest of men but

        42                  LUCK OR CUNNING f                             xxv
  1886 he dearly loved a joke. Some doctor was dining with him just
Aet. 50 before starting for the West of Africa and, as the gentlemen were
        leaving the dining-room, Mr. Tylor went up to this man, took
        him aside confidentially and said : " If you happen, out there, to
        come across a black man with any white spots on his body, kill
        him and send him to me : I'll give any money for him," and
        then retired chuckling.
             On the 10th November 1886, Butler received the
        first copy of Luck or Cunning as the Main Means of
        Modification ? An attempt to throw additional light upon
        the late Mr. Charles Darwin s theory of natural selection.
        The dedication runs thus :
            To the Memory of the late Alfred Tylor, Esq., F.G.S. etc.,
        whose experiments at Carshalton in the years 1883 and 1884
        established that plants also are endowed with intelligential and
        volitional faculties, this Book begun at his instigation is gratefully
        and affectionately inscribed.
             In Luck or Cunning ? Butler continued to insist first
        upon the substantial identity between heredity and memory,
        and secondly upon the importance of design as a factor of
        organic development.
             Chapter i. is introductory and contains remarks about
        Life and Habit, Evolution Old and New, and Unconscious
        Memory.
             Chapters ii. and iii. contain a reply to Mr. Herbert
        Spencer, who had written in The Athenaeum (ante, I. p.
        410), claiming to have been among the forestallers of Life
        and Habit, a claim which Butler saw no reason to admit.
             Chapter iv. is taken almost entirely from his " Remarks
        on Mr. G. J. Romanes* Mental Evolution in Animals,"
        which formed part of his book of Selections (1884). It
        deals also with Illustrations of Unconscious Memory in
        Disease including a Theory of Alternatives, by Charles
        Creighton, M.D. (London : H. K. Lewis, 1886), a book
        based avowedly on Hering's Essay on Memory, Dr.
        Creighton not knowing of Life and Habit at the time he
        wrote his book.
             Chapters v. and vi. discuss whether Luck or Cunning
        is the fitter to be insisted on.

 xxt             ACCIDENT AND DESIGN                              43
     Mr. Charles Darwin, . . . Mr. A. R. Wallace, and their 1886
 supporters are the apostles of luck, while Erasmus Darwin and Aet. 5°
 Lamarck, followed, more or less timidly, by the Geoffroys and by
 Mr. Herbert Spencer, and, very timidly indeed, by the Duke of
 Argyll, preach cunning as the most important means of organic
 modification.
      Chapter vii. is about Mr. Herbert Spencer's articles
 " The Factors of Organic Evolution." Chapters viii. and
ix.are headed "Property, Common Sense, and Protoplasm."
Chapter x. " The Attempt to Eliminate Mind." Chapter
xi. " The Way of Escape." In this chapter, as in others of
the book, will be found passages elaborated from Butler's
letter to my brother Edward (Nov. 1884) ; he used this
letter for Luck or Cunning ? much as he had used his letter
 to T. W. G. Butler for Life and Habit.
      Chapter xii. "Why Darwin's Variations were Acci
dental."
      Chapters xiii. to xvii. deal with Charles Darwin's claim
to be the originator of the theory of descent with modifica
tion ; also with Grant Allen's Charles Darwin and with
 Professor Ray Lankester and Lamarck.
      Chapter xviii. contains what can be said in favour of
Charles Darwin. Here are a few quotations :
     [Though], however, it is not likely that posterity will consider
him as a man of transcendant intellectual power, he must be
admitted to have been richly endowed with a much more valuable
quality than either originality or literary ability—I mean with
savoir faire. . . .
     Greatness, indeed, of the highest kind—that of one who is
without fear and without reproach—will not ultimately be allowed
him, but greatness of a rare kind can only be denied him by those
whose judgement is perverted by temper or personal ill-will. . . .
     BufFon planted, Erasmus Darwin and Lamarck watered, but
it was Mr. Darwin who said " That fruit is ripe " and shook it
into his lap.
     Mr. Darwin will have a crown sufficient for any ordinary
brow remaining in the achievement of having done more than
any other writer, living or dead, to popularise evolution.
     The concluding chapter contains a resumi of Alfred
Tylor's paper, part of which was read at the Linnean
Society in December 1884.

                          CHAPTER XXVI
                            1887.   1888—Part I
                                  EX VOTO
•**7 Canon Butler by his will did as he had threatened and
et' 5' tied up the greater part of what he left his son ; but,
       except that this prevented Butler from dealing with the
       principal so tied up, it did not inflict on him any other
       injury and, as regards income, he found himself comfort
       ably off once more. He repaid all the money he had
       borrowed during his financial difficulties of the preceding
       ten years, and was now able to continue the allowance to
       Pauli without feeling it anything of a drag. He also
       began to look round for some one to come and help in his
       rooms.
           Mrs. Doncaster, his laundress, had a friend, Mrs.
       Cathie, whose nephew, Alfred Emery Cathie, a young
       man just over twenty-two, was in want of a job. Butler
       took him on for a time to see how it worked. His
       business was partly to replace Robert, and partly to act as
       clerk, valet, and general attendant ; he was also, as a live
       young thing about the place, a cheerful addition to
       Clifford's Inn. They got on so well together that Alfred
       remained permanendy.
           I had returned to the office of Sir Thomas Paine and
       was working there as managing clerk. Butler proposed that
       I should give up trying to succeed as a solicitor, in which
       profession my relations and friends had frequently given
       me to understand that I was not doing remarkably well,
       and that I should devote myself to helping him with his
       music and his writing, he giving me the amount I was
                                     46


lT \ i"'i i n       \N'-'!
                        ¦           !¦> ;d thrtv--
                                        •ft his son , i.
                              -..-.i dealing w\S
                                 • m him v v ¦¦¦:.
                              .-; i himself' CO-i .
                                   : ' t money he
                                   c.s of" the pre.-- .
                               ¦ ..- the allowance
                             >f" 1 drag. He ¦
                       .^ ; >•'•¦.¦ and help in
                    -.x        h » i a friend, M
                 ! ••              ¦¦ O.thie, a y«'>
                 • . .            '. of" a joh. M
                         ¦     ¦*• it work.- !
                           •       . i u pai:'v •
                   ' , '.'• w.is »ls>, :tv ,
                   s i ' -•;*¦. i additi"
                 - .'. .• ¦ rier that .'•
                .¦' v Thorn-is V
                     v. i'l.rier propo-,..            ,
                   A as a si iicitor, :r              ¦
                 .vis ':• >.l Jrequer.r.y               ¦
               ¦ i • :•-,: lcr.ark.'.M.                   •
              ;     ».':•;¦!               :j him  a-:!.
                 -         t.c ','ic a.i.'unt 1 '

sJ
 ^


                   COMFORTABLY OFF                             47
 receiving from the office, viz. : j£200 a. year. I accepted 1887
 his proposal and gave up the law. We hoped that my Aet. 51
mother would not be so much displeased with me as to
discontinue the £100 a year she had been allowing me.
She, however, was very much displeased and did discon
 tinue the allowance. For it now appeared that I had
 been doing remarkably well at the law, and it was such a
pity to throw it all up. In time, however, she relented
as to the allowance ; though whether she returned to the
view that nature had not intended me for business I never
ascertained. From this time, therefore, until the death
of my mother in 1900, I received £200 a year from
Butler ; no other alteration took place in the relations
between us except that, as I was now free, we were more
together.
     The payments he made to Alfred and to me were the
only extra expenses he undertook upon the death of his
father, unless his payments to Pauli can be considered
extra expenses, and the increase in his income was in his
opinion sufficient to justify them. He bought himself a
new wash-hand basin, but made no other change in his
way of living except that, as we shall see presently, he
also bought himself a new pair of hair-brushes. He wore
out his hair-brushes rather quickly, because he had the
habit of brushing his hair every night one hundred strokes,
fifty each side.
                      Butler to Miss Butler
    27 March 1887—^ have got the lecture over. I believe it
was a great success, and Jones and Gogin who were there were
very much pleased with its reception. I, of course, could not
form much of an opinion for I read my lecture and was unable
to look the people in the face as I did when speaking. I think
I shall speak in future, but was afraid of overlooking points and
so wrote it out. I am to deliver it again in the autumn at
another similar institution and shall then, I think, speak it.
     This was the lecture to the Working Men's College,
on the subdivision of the organic world into animal and
vegetable, the delivery of which was postponed from
December 1886.

        48                 BUYING PICTURES                      xxv.
  1887      In April he found a picture in a second-hand shop,
Aet. 51 »jOSCph bang Robed by Order of Pharaoh," which he
        thought looked like an early Rembrandt {The Note-Books
        of Samuel Butler, p. 151). It was marked only 40s., so
        he got Gogin to look at it and, on having his opinion
        supported, bought it, and always derived much pleasure
        from thinking that he possessed a Rembrandt in addition
        to his portrait of the Countess of Egremont by Sir Joshua.
        He also had a portrait of a woman by Jacob Gerritsz
        Cuyp, the father of Albert Cuyp, the animal painter.
        This, and the Reynolds, were given to his solicitor, Russell
        Cooke. After his death I was staying with my friend Dr.
        King Martyn at Bath, and observed in his dining-room a
        pair of pictures, a man and a woman ; at first I took
        the portrait of the woman to be Butler's Cuyp. Either
        Dr. Martyn's or Butler's was a copy or a replica. Each
        of Dr. Martyn's pictures had a paper on it at the back
        stating that they were painted by J. G. Cuyp and repre
        sented Reyms of Overstrand, aet. thirty, 1637, and his wife.
        The wife was a Bullen of the family of Anne Bullen, and
        Dr. Martyn had the pictures because the Bullens come
        into his pedigree.
            Later in 1887 Butler added to his collection two
        sketches by Frank Huddlestone Potter (1 845-1 887),
        whom he had known at Heatherley's and whose work he
        admired. Potter had recently died, and in the winter an
       exhibition of his pictures was held at which Butler bought
       the sketches. There are two pictures by Potter in the
       Tate Gallery.
            For Easter he went abroad with Gogin, visiting,
       among other places, Ypres, where occurred the meeting
       with the two English barristers and the Italian gende-
       man described in The Note- Books of Samuel Butler\
       p. 255.
            Buder had approached the Editor of The Athenaeum
        (MacColl) about the Bellini heads ; he now wrote to him
        about Holbein's drawing "La Danse" at Basel. To
       this letter MacColl, on the advice of his art critic, made
       objections. Butler replied, complaining that he had been
       treated with much discourtesy, which he should allow to

                   "VERY INJUDICIOUS"
 pass as on previous occasions ; but when it came to burk- 1887
 ing matter which afforded even a hope of adding to our Aet. s
 knowledge of such men as Holbein and Bellini, he was
 not disposed to submit. Here is the conclusion of his
 letter, and a note he added to the copy he kept :
            Butler to the Editor of" The Athenaeum.'"
      13 April 1887— The Athenaeum attacked Erewhon savagely          |
(Ap. 20th 1872), it sneered at Life and Habit (Jan. 26th 1878)
which it said was " too flighty to be of much real value," yet by
July 26 1879 these books had become "good reading," and it was
only in the then new one that there were signs of declining power
or "bad workmanship." Now (Jan. 1887) The Athenaeum is
anxious to pretend that it was among the first to give me
encouragement. I have left the facts sufficiently on record in my
commonplace book, and have no wish to go into them here ; but
I may be allowed to conclude that The Athenaeum is not infallible.
     [This is a very injudicious letter but I have no wish to pose as
a monster of sound judgement. I do not think MacColl disliked or
dislikes me ; but he was not a pleasant person to deal with, and
often gave my books to reviewers who, he perfectly well knew,
 would slate them of set purpose.—S. B., Feb. 21st 1902.]
                     Butler to Mrs. Heatherley.
      19 April 1887—I am too heavily weighted already to be able
to be of much service to your friend—or rather to Dr. Allbutt.
I am exceedingly sorry for him and, though I had not heard of his
book, have little doubt that it says a great deal that ought to be
said and which people are afraid to say.
     I am aware that the sexual question is of more practical im
portance than any such as Christianity can be ; at the same time
till Christianity is dead and buried we shall never get the burning
questions that lie beyond approached in a spirit of sobriety and
commonsense. It is therefore against superstition, and more
especially the Christian superstition, that I have fought to the best
of my ability.
     But I have got to take the world as I find it and must not make
myself impossible. At present I have the religious world bitterly
hostile ; the scientific and literary world are even more hostile
than the religious ; if to this hostility I am to add that of the
respectable world, I may as well shut up shop at once for all the
use I shall be to myself or anyone else. Let me get a really
      VOL. II                                                 E

        50              DR. BUTLER'S GEOGRAPHY                                       xxvi
 1887 strong position like that of Ruskin, Carlyle, or even Matthew
       by
       as
        Arnold,
           much
           tryingand
Aet 51 jeopardise   as
                     to
                     what
                        do
                        I may
                        they  will
                            Imore
                               believe
                                  bethan
                                     endure
                                      relied
                                         toI beupon
                                               without
                                             can.a fairto chance
                                                           rebellion
                                                           give the
                                                                  of ;public
                                                                      future
                                                                         but to will
                                                                                 the not
                                                                                      full
                                                                             Iusefulness
            I have spoken with great plainness, but plain speaking saves
       trouble all round. I do not know whether it is possible for Dr.
       Allbutt to do as I should suggest, but, if I were his adviser, I
       should advise him to apologise at once, say the thing was done
       without full privity on his part, promise not to offend again and
       be careful not to sail so near the wind in future. I will mention
       Dr. Allbutt's case to my own doctor, Dr. Dudgeon, who, as a
       homoeopathist, is naturally more or less of a malcontent, but there
       I am afraid I must stop. I am sorry I cannot be of more use.
       the
       atlas
       author
       publishers
       years
       like
       be re-issued
            book,
              afor
            Dr. the
                 sensible
                   and
                    Butler,
                    use
                      the
                       work
                         or
                         at
                       wrote
                          tosales
                              not.
                              Shrewsbury
                              man,
                               his
                                having
                                to
                                brought
                                   ofButler
                                     son.
                                       supplied
                                        which
                                            need
                                               On
                                              inschool
                                                 had
                                                fora of
                                                     his
                                                      Canon
                                                      his
                                                       handsome
                                                          aown
                                                            and
                                                        recently
                                                            opinion
                                                              good
                                                                Butler's
                                                                 want.
                                                                 finding
                                                                    declined,
                                                                      geography
                                                                      income
                                                                       as toFor
                                                                            none,
                                                                            death,
                                                                               whether
                                                                                 should
                                                                                 tomany
                                                                                    had,
                                                                                     and
                                                                                      the
    1
    I
                   Butler to Messrs. Longmans, Green & Co.
           8 June 1887—I cannot see my way to setting the book to
       music, nor yet painting it, nor connecting it in any way with
       evolution, nor making any fun out of it all ; should an idea
       cross my mind within the next few days I will let you know,
       but I think this so improbable that if you do not hear from me
       within a week I will ask you to consider me as agreeing with
       yourselves that the best thing to do is to let the stock sell out
       and not reproduce the work.
            When Dr. Butler left Shrewsbury to become Bishop of
       Lichfield he was presented with a service of silver plate
       made by Storr & Mortimer of Bond Street.                                  Canon
       Butler by his will left this to Butler.
                              My Grandfather's Plate
           It cost altogether nearly a thousand pounds, but I did not want
       it and, though I could only get old silver price for it, I determined

 XXVI                       HIS PLATE                               5i
 to sell it. I took it to a silversmith's in the Strand, or rather got 1887
 them to send some one to see it ; he said it was very good, but of Aet. ji
a period (1836) now out of fashion.
     " There is one especial test of respectability in plate," he
remarked ; " we seldom find it but, when we do, we consider it the
most correct thing and the best guarantee of solid prosperity that
anything in plate can give. When there is a silver venison dish
we know that the plate comes from an owner of the very highest
respectability."
     My grandfather had a silver venison dish.
     On the night the plate came to Clifford's Inn, the porter and I
unpacked it in the cellar where we put it for safety. The cellar
was dark and, as we only had one candle, we must have looked like
a couple of burglars counting our swag. I, particularly, had a
guilty feeling because a good many people told me I ought not to
sell the plate at all—they said I ought to keep it, out of respect
for my grandfather's memory. People will talk like this and it
made me uncomfortable, though I did not mean paying any
attention to what they said.
     While we were unpacking it, or repacking it, I forget which,
I saw a dilapidated old book lying on the knifeboard with a
blacking bottle on it and an old tin tallow candlestick. I knew
there was something in the book that made it go in counterpoint
with the surroundings, so I took the blacking bottle off it and
opened it. It was an early copy of my grandfather's Atlas of
Ancient and Modern Geography. I dare say it may be thought
that I invented this ; I can only say that I did not, and indeed
could not invent anything so perfectly in keeping with itself.
But it frightened me.
     P.S. [Added after the publication of The Life and Letters of
Dr. Samuel Butler.] When I wrote the above, I knew nothing
about my grandfather except that he had been a great school
master—and I did not like schoolmasters ; and then a bishop—
and I did not like bishops ; and that he was supposed to be like
my father. Of course when I got hold of his papers, I saw
what he was and fell head over ears in love with him. Had
I known then what I know now, I do not think I could have
sold the plate ; but it was much better that I should, and I
have raised a far better monument to his memory than ever the
 plate was.
      Under his father's will Butler became entitled for life
 to a farm at Harnage near Shrewsbury, and the looking
 after this provided him with much employment of a new
 and interesting nature. At Harnage Dr. Butler used to                   j
 raise meat and vegetables for the boys at Shrewsbury                    \

     52              A MAN OF PROPERTY
1887 School, and by good management this was one of the
^ 51 sources of the fortune he made.
          By the joint operation of his grandfather's will and the
     subsequent dealings with the property Butler, on the
     death of his father, became absolutely entitled in possession,
     subject to the mortgage he had made, to the Whitehall
     fields which, as pasture, had been bringing in only a nominal
     rent, but were now ripe for building. Much of his time
     was taken up in consulting with surveyors and solicitors
     as to the best way of developing the property. He paid
     off the mortgage, and a scheme for development which
     should interfere as little as possible with the mansion house,
     in which his cousin Archdeacon Lloyd lived, was agreed
     upon. Roads were made and the land was divided into
     plots which were gradually sold.
          In June we stayed for a few days at Church Stretton
     and went over to Shrewsbury, partly to see about the sale
     of this land and partly to be present at the School concert,
     where, by the kindness of the headmaster and Mr. Hay,
     the music master, some of the music of Narcissus was
     performed by the boys. It appears from the letter to Mr.
     Hay of 14th July 1887 (post) that we must have left some
     of our music behind.
          Not long afterwards we had another opportunity of
     hearing our music, when most of the choruses of Narcissus
     were sung through at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
     Layton by friends of theirs with a piano accompaniment.
     Mr. Thomas Layton was a partner of Sir Thomas Paine
     to whom I had been articled.
          On our way back from Shrewsbury we spent a day at
     Kenilworth, and Butler took me into the church and
     showed me the family monuments with their epitaphs in
     the " Butlers' Pantry." He also introduced me to Mrs.
     Henry Butler, the widow of Dr. Butler's cousin, William
     Henry Butler (ante, I. p. 4). She was still living in the
     Stone House and we lunched with her.
          At Shrewsbury we had seen Mr. Blunt, a chemist
     on the Wyle Cop, who was much interested in Life and
     Habit. A correspondence ensued of which I only find
     this letter:

 kvi      THE ESSENCE OF CHRISTIANITY                             53
                        Butler to Mr. Blunt.
     5 July 1887—Do you—does any man of science—believe that 1887
 the present orthodox faith can descend many generations longer A«- 51
 without modification ? Do I—does any free-thinker who has the
ordinary feelings of an Englishman—doubt that the main idea
 underlying and running through the ordinary orthodox faith is
substantially sound ?
    That there is an unseen life and unseen kingdom which is not
of this world, and that the wisdom of this world is foolishness
with God ; that the life we live here is much but, at the same
time, small as compared with another larger life in which we all
share though, while here, we can know little if anything about it ;
that there is an omnipresent Being into whose presence none can
enter and from whose presence none can escape—an ineffable
contradiction in terms (as I have said in Luck or Cunning ?) ; that
the best are still unprofitable servants and that the wisest are still
children—who that is in his senses can doubt these things ? And
surely they are more the essence of Christianity than a belief that
Jesus Christ died, rose from the dead, and ascended visibly into
heaven.
    Technically and according to the letter of course they are not.
According to the spirit I firmly believe they are. Tell me that
Jesus Christ died upon the Cross, and I find not one tittle of
evidence worthy of the name to support the assertion. Tell me
that therefore we are to pull down the Church and turn everyone
to his own way, and I reject this as fully as I reject the other. I
want the Church as much as I want free-thought ; but I want the
Church to pull her letter more up to date or else to avow more
frankly that her letter is a letter only. If she would do this I, for
one, would not quarrel with her. Unfortunately, things do not
seem moving in the direction in which I would gladly see them
go and do all in my power to help them go.
                         Butler to Mr. Hay.
     14 July 1887—It's all right about the parts—we ought to have
seized them and shall know better another time. They are easily
re-written as we have the score.
     I am, and so is Jones, exceedingly sorry that we have got you
into being attacked by Mr. Moss. He is a very good fellow, but
we cannot expect a University swell to know anything about art
or music.
     I am sure Athaliah is quite as comic as Narcissus is. Besides
 I have heard your good uncle play " La ci darem " in St. Mary's

        54                   NEW ITALIAN BOOK                                     xxvi
  1887 Church as a voluntary in the middle of the service. I remember
        the
        Night's
        it exceedingly
Art- 51 any   ballyDream
             people airs
                      outabout
                          well
                           even
                           withand  theno
                                        IWedding
                                it.now—at  oneany
                                          don't in
                                                 suppose
                                                   rate
                                                   those
                                                     March
                                                         they
                                                          days
                                                        your  uncle
                                                               would
                                                             from
                                                                gavethe
                                                                     often
                                                                      him
                                                                        mind
                                                                         Midsummer
                                                                           didplaying
                                                                           or   it.
                                                                               herself
             However, we are exceedingly sorry we are always getting
        ourselves and our friends into some scrape—at least when we deal
        with dons and uneducated people of that description.
             Alps and Sanctuaries was known in Varallo, and especi
        ally the sentence in the preface apologising for publishing a
        work professing to deal with the sanctuaries of Piedmont
        and saying so little about the most important of them all
        —" Varallo requires a work to itself ; I must therefore
        hope to return to it on another occasion." We were at
        Varallo in August 1887, and Dionigi Negri did all he
        could to force Butler to carry out his intention of writing
        a book about the Sacro Monte.
                            H. F. Jones to Charles Gogin.
                                          Albergo Crocs Bianca, Varallo Sesia.
                                                         30 Aug., 1887.
             Dear Gogin—Butler told me yesterday that I might write
        to you so I am doing it. He is up the Sacro Monte writing.
        He calls it taking a holiday, but really he has been making great
        progress with a new Italian book which is to run this place and
        Gaudenzio Ferrari. He has got some lovely things in the book.
        There is another man who did statues up here, Tabachetti, who
        is also to be run. On the other hand Varallo is running Butler,
        for we are to go to a banquet given in his honour on Thursday at
        the Albergo on top of the mountain, and he says we shall probably
        be kissed. To-morrow we are going with Dionigi Negri to the
        vineyards, and it will be like the day at the Cantine in Alps and
        Sanctuaries—at least we think so. I am enjoying myself very
        much and doing as nearly nothing as possible.
             On Sunday we went to Civiasco, a village in the mountains,
        and it was a festa, San Gottardo the Saint of the Church ; and
        the people had brought offerings of butter (large round lumps),
        eggs, cheeses, cakes (great round flat ones with patterns on their
        backs), wine, nuts, biscuits, bacon, etc. These were to be sold
        after Vespers by auction and the money given to the Church—or
        rather taken by the priests ; we could not stay to see the sale, but
        we saw the procession and helped to carry the Madonna out of
        the church all down the village to a chapel where they reposed

 XXVI                        A BUGGY BAND                                      55
 her. She also rested four times by the way on tables put for her 1*87
 reception covered with cloths, and on the cloths flowers were Aet. 51
 strewn. There was a band also, brass and two clarinets and a                      ,
 flute, and it might have played better—it was buggy 1 ; it might
 also have chosen less frivolous music, but the Madonna's taste in
 music is rudimentary ; she likes waltzes and such things. The
 same band played in the church to accompany the Mass and
 Vespers. We lunched at the inn of La Martina, a large, jolly,
 middle-aged person. Dionigi Negri told us that in her youth she
 was " generosa." It has done her a great deal of good, and she is
an example of its being more blessed to give than to receive (she
has received a good deal, however). When we were at Fusio it
was the festa of San Rocco, and we helped to carry him down the
road and back to his place in church. We think it is good for
our morals to carry saints now and then. Butler says it is the
great principle of change, and the change is certainly complete.
      The new book is also to contain other things besides Varallo.
There is a lovely votive picture at Civiasco of a man who was
passing the Albergo del Falcone at Barcelona, in Spain, when a
cannon ball from the battery across the river came and made his
nose bleed. To prove the truth of the statement a piece of the
cannon ball is hung beside the picture. San Gottardo prevented
its doing further damage.
      Do not trouble to write, but if you have anything you want
to say we should receive a letter sent to Hotel Mont Blanc,
Aosta, Italy. We go there on Friday and shall take two days to
get there and shall stay there two days, so far as we can tell ; if
you do not write there well within a week, the next place to be
sure of catching us is Hotel Grotta Crimea, Chiavenna, Italy.
We should like to know how you are, and we hope you are f
better. We hope your mother is going on all right. We do not
know when we shall get to Chiavenna nor how long we shall |
stay there. Russell Cooke is to join us there and I am to come
home from there. I am to be home by 22 Sept. Butler will
sta'y longer. Tabachetti did some things at Crea, somewhere
down near Alessandria, and he wants to go and inspect them.
     We are a little nervous about our vineyards to-morrow. In
the first place, we have to start by the train leaving here at
4.58 a.m., and that is early. In the next place it is certain they
will try, and almost certain they will succeed in making us drunk
and then—well, you never can be certain what you may do when
you are drunk ; besides Butler says he can't write unless he keeps
sober, which seems reasonable ; but I daresay we shall pull through
somehow. Butler is very good and behaves like an angel. All
    1 Gogin lived opposite St. Pancras Chur36"m' the Euston Road. One of the belli
was out of tune and he treed to say it was like the smell of a bug.                  .
                                           -
                                - V'"             s
                     ',<-/

        56                BANQUET AT VARALLO
  1887 the people are so pleased to see him and compliment him on his
Aet. 51 good looks and on keeping so young. Then he puts on an air of
        great sadness, lowers his voice, and tells them he has had the
        misfortune to lose his father. He sends you his love. Yours
        always,                                 JfawfU^FESTiNG Jones.
                           H. F. Jones to Charles Gogin.
                                       Hotel Cavour, Milano, 10 Sept. 1887.
              Dear Gogin—There were no letters or papers at Aosta and,
        as it is pretty certain some were sent there, we have concluded
        there is something wrong with the Aosta post-office ; it is like
        the telephone in the hotel at Casale—not in activity. Con
        sequently if you wrote to us there we did not get your letter.
         Our day at the vineyards went ofF without intoxication.
         Dionigi's uncle came with us and we both fell in love with him ;
         he is a delightful old man. He brought a basket containing
         some bread and the remainder of half a bottle of sherry, but he
         left it in the train and it went on to Novara and he had it on his
         mind all day ; it was not the bread nor the sherry, he said, but
         the basket. We told him we had drunk the sherry while he
         was asleep in the train, and the way he said " Chow " would have
         won your heart. He did nearly everything Dionigi told him,
         took the wrong turnings, drove the carriage, cut up the chicken
        etc., but once or twice (as when the turning was too wrong) he
        put his foot down and wouldn't, and then Dionigi dried up at
        once.
              The banquet was a tremendous affair, altogether there were
         26 people including the Procuratore del Re, the Sotto Prefetto,
         the Direttore del Sacro Monte, the Municipio and all the swells.
         Butler was put at the head of the table and we had a very good
         dinner. Afterwards there were speeches. The Director of the
         Sacred Mountain proposed Butler's health in florid terms, and
         Butler replied in Italian. I forget how the speeches went, there
         were not many, but some villain proposed the health of England
         and mentioned me, and it was considered proper for me to
         reply which I did in about five words of what I intended to be
         French. Butler made two speeches and spoke beautifully. I
         asked Fuselli (an Italian who has been in America and who sat
         next me) how Butler spoke, and he said " he finds his words as
        easily as we do."
              Before dinner we went to look at one of the figures in the
         Deposition Chapel, an old man Butler has discovered [the
         Vecchietto] and about whom he will tell you—very interesting.
         The custode brought the keys and we all got into the chapel
        and examined him.

XXVI                  ADAM AND EVE                               57
     We had been told that two of the soldiers, in the chapel 1887
where Christ is taken in the garden, were made out of the old Aet. 51
statues of Adam and Eve when the present Adam and Eve in
the first chapel were made, and we had examined the chapel in r
the morning and made up our minds that the soldier with a
moustache and real drapery was Adam and the other soldier
with long hair and armour was Eve. Eve was bigger than
Adam which was wrong, and she had no breasts to speak of, but
that might have been because neither Cain nor Abel was yet
born. Her breast had been painted to represent armour in silver
scales, which stopped short of her girdle, her intervening belly
being painted blue, like an ancient Briton. As we were going
into chapels before dinner, we thought we might as well settle the   \
Adam and Eve question for certain, so we went in and Dionigi
investigated ; I also pulled up their clothes and we found we had
been quite wrong in the morning. It is Eve who has the
moustache and the drapery hides her breasts ; and it is Adam's
stomach that is painted blue.
     On Friday (2 Sept.) we went to Alagna in the post and here
we had to put up with a double-bedded room which we never
like. He is afraid his snoring will disturb me and says I am to
wake him if he snores. The consequence is we neither of us
go to sleep ; he is afraid if he does he shall snore and disturb me,
and I am afraid if I do he will snore and I shall not be able to
wake him, and he won't like that. In the morning occurred the
toothbrush riots. He accused me of using his toothbrush—said
he could see the marks of my teeth upon it. [I have not the
faintest recollection of all this.—S. B., Feb. 22, 1902.] It was
only with the greatest difficulty 1 got him to believe he was
mistaken by assuring him that I had not cleaned my teeth for
a fortnight.
     On Saturday 3 Sept. we walked over the Col d' Olen to
Gressoney La Triniti, on the 4th down the Valley to Issime, on
the 5th further down to Pont Saint Martin, where we took the
train to Aosta. Daniele was our guide the last 2 days, a
charming young man who hates his sister. He can stand home
on work days when he can get out, but the Sundays and the
feste are killing him. On the 7th to Ivrea, and on the 8th to
Casale.
     On the 9th we took train to Serra Lunga, and then drove
to Crea where there is a Sanctuary containing figures by
Tabachetti. Many of the chapels are empty and some only half
full, being restored ; some have been restored. He will tell you
about it when we get back. One chapel had been turned into
a studio by an old Jew sculptor, the image of Shylock with
a port-wine mark on his face. We found him suitably engaged

        58          A TOPSY-TURVY GOLGOTHA                          xxv:
  1S87 in modelling Christ on a wooden cross for the Crucifixion Chapel.
Aet. 51 It was the most rapid Crucifixion on record. He assured us that
        he only began at 9 that morning and when we saw it a few hours
        later one could almost say that it was finished. We settled that
        he could give any man down to the wound in the side and beat
        him. To-day we came here. The hotel is kept by a married
        daughter of the people who keep the hotel at Faido, but it is
        an alarmingly swell place and we are going away as soon as
        we can as it makes us nervous. We hope you are all right, and
        your mother. Butler sends his love.—Yours always,
                                               Henry Festing Jones.
            P.S.—The banquet is reported in the Varallo paper.
             The word " Chow " uttered by Dionigi's uncle is
        really "Ciao," but I have preserved the other spelling
        because Butler so writes it in Alps and Sanctuaries.
             The municipal banquet took place in the loggia of
        the Albergo on the Sacro Monte which Butler always
        spoke of as the most beautiful dining-room he knew.
        As we came down the slippery mountain path when it
        was all over, he said to me :
             " Well, after this you know, the next thing I do must
        be my book about the Sacro Monte."
             He refers to this dinner on p. 25 of Ex Voto, where
        he says, speaking of the people of Varallo :
            Personally I owe them the greatest honour that has ever been
        conferred upon me—an honour far greater than any I have ever
        received among those who know me better and are probably
        better judges of my deserts.
             A reproduction of the figure in the Deposition
        chapel, the Vecchietto, is given as the frontispiece of
        Ex Voto.
             The chapel that the old Jew sculptor was using as
        a studio at Crea was littered with limbs half-formed and
        coming into being, and Butler said it was a topsy-turvy
        Golgotha.
             At Milan, Butler had photographs taken of the
        Bellini heads in Gentile's great picture of "St. Mark
        Preaching at Alexandria," and of those in Carpaccio's
        " Preaching of St. Stephen." We went to Bergamo and
        from there by the Lago d' Iseo to Lovere, Ponte della

xxvi                     HAIR-BRUSHES                         59
Selva, and back to Bergamo, and, by Lecco and Colico, 1S87
to Chiavenna, where we stayed at the Albergo Grotta              5'
Crimea.Butler
Samuel       This(19   12). is mentioned in The Note- Books of •
                    albergo
                  Alfred and the Triad on G
     Some years ago I tried to teach Alfred music, but by mutual
consent we dropped the lessons after a few months, I asked him
once what position the common chord of G was in, and played
it for him thus : ff3=g= meaning him to say that it was in its
original position. The dear fellow looked at it for some time
and answered :
     " I should say, sir, it was about the middle."
                       Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
     % Nov. 1887—His [Alfred's] music lessons had been inter
mitted by my going abroad but I have lately resumed them. He
kicks hard at the scales, but I am obdurate. He is very good,
but is evidently under the impression that I am an old, decrepit
person with one foot in the grave. I got a new pair of hair
brushes the other day—a good pair—the others having been long
on their very last legs. I said to him that they would last my
time.
     " Yes, sir," said he promptly.
     I was a little piqued and determined to give him a locus
paenitentiae, so I said :
     " Of course, I can never hope to see them out."
     " No, sir," he replied with equal promptitude.
     I was exceedingly amused. Of course one never can tell
from week to week, but I am not going to settle the matter out
of hand that I am not to survive my hair-brushes.
      In 1887 Francis Darwin published the Life and Letters
of Charles Darwin. On p. 220 of vol. III. occurs a passage
referring to the publication of Erasmus Darwin and to
Butler's accusations which followed ; the passage will be
found in an Appendix (post) quoted by Butler in his letter
to The Athenaeum, 26th November 1887. It concludes :
    The affair gave my father much pain, but the warm sympathy
of those whose opinion he respected soon helped him to let it
pass into a well-merited contempt.

        6o                    PHOTOGRAPHY                            XXVI
 1887         In 1887 Francis Darwin also issued a new edition of
Aet 5a Charles Darwin's Erasmus Darwin, and fulfilled his father's
        promise to Buder by adding to the original preface this
       footnote :
            Mr. Darwin accidentally omitted to mention that Dr. Krause
      revised, and made certain additions to, his essay before it was
       translated. Among these additions is an allusion to Mr. Butler's
       Evolution Old and New.
             Butler saw that this third foot-note changed the sense
       which the other two foot-notes had borne when they stood
       alone in the preface to the first edition, and wrote to The
       Academy a letter which is reproduced in an Appendix (post)
       dated 17th December 1887 : "Mr. Francis Darwin has
       now stultified his father's preface." In so writing he did
       not know, and he had no means of knowing, that the
       third foot-note had restored to the preface the meaning
   f   which Charles Darwin had originally intended it to bear.
             In his early days Butler had dabbled in photography ;
       he now bought two cameras, one for snap-shots and one
       for time-exposures, and took a few lessons so that he
       might photograph the statues in the chapels at Varallo-
       Sesia.
                              A Winter Journey
            Gogin and I spent Xmas at Boulogne and on the afternoon
       of Dec. 28, 1887 I left for Varallo—travelling all night to Basel.
             It was bitterly cold and, between Chilons and the Swiss
       frontier, the snow drifted in from each window and piled itself
       up on the seats near the windows, so that I could only sit in
       the very middle of the carriage. Fortunately I was the only
       occupant.
             I was very thickly clad, but was wearing a sling bag outside
       my greatcoat, so that the warmth of my body would hardly
       affect the thermometer that I had within it—still no doubt the
        temperature inside the bag would be warmer than that outside.
        About 2 a.m. I took the thermometer out and found it at 260.
             At Basel everything was warm. I crossed Switzerland to
        Luino on a brilliant cloudless day—everything was deep in snow.
        I never saw Switzerland look more beautiful, but I suppose it was
        chiefly the strangeness that made it fascinate me so strongly.
        After Luino there was very little snow, but all the little water
        falls were locked in frost. The carriages were now no longer

xxyt             VARALLO IN WINTER                             61
warmed and I was half starved when I reached Varallo about 1888
 10 P.M.                                                          Aet. 5a
    It was bitterly cold all the time I was at Varallo—about 4
weeks—but it was quite clear ; all day long great masses of ice
were being brought in from the Mastallone to store in the ice
houses, and I did not see a waterfall that was not locked and
turned to icy stalagmites. Once or twice I went down to Milan
for a day, but always from about Sizzano onward there was thick
fog—the hoar frost hanging an inch long on every twig, and the
sun looking as white as a white plate. I never felt the cold much
more than I did in January 1888 at Varallo, but it was colder on
the plains.—[S. B., Feb. 23, 1902.]
     Dionigi Negri made the necessary arrangements so
that Butler could go inside the chapels and take his photo
graphs from any point of view. The chapels were dark
and, though he helped himself with magnesium wire, he
often had to expose a plate for half an hour, or more,
during which time he was forced to contemplate and
meditate upon the statues. In this way he came to have
a very intimate knowledge of them.
     Sometimes he passed his evenings with the landlord,
Carlo Topini, in the Albergo della Posta. Dionigi Negri
would come, and they sat on the settles before the fire of
peat and wood. Sometimes Dionigi Negri would take
him to the house of his uncle Zio Paolo, who was a baker
in the Piazza. Then they sat in the kitchen, Butler in
front of the fire in the middle with Dionigi next him on
one side, and Signor Cesare, who had married Zio Paolo's
daughter, on the other ; the semicircle being completed
by Zio Paolo and his young man-servant and factotum,
Leonardo, one on each side of the fire. Leonardo's
pretty little sister sat in the background with the other
woman servant, sewing or darning stockings, and the two
bakers who made Zio Paolo's bread used always to come
in and say " good-night " at half-past nine and then go
off at once to bed, for they had to begin work by two in
the morning.
     Of course they referred to the loss of the Xeres, and
       Chowheld
 Zio "Paolo   ! " up his hands and said :
     Dionigi would profess to take no interest in the matter,

        62                        EX VOTO                       XXVI
  isss and would declare that the basket must have gone on to
             "Chow!"
Aet- s* Naples   where all lost luggage goes. Zio Paolo said :
             It became a standard joke, and whenever we returned
        to Varallo we always asked if he had found the basket
        with the Xeres, and he always held up his hands and
        said :
             « Chow ! "
             Sometimes Leonardo, if he thought proper, would
        fetch out his photograph album, which had a musical box
        in the binding, and set it to play its tunes to them, and
        they would all exclaim :
             " Oh bel ! "
             Which is what the people say when they look into the
        chapels on the Mountain. And sometimes, in honour of
        Butler's presence, Leonardo would tell them about England.
        He wished he could introduce into Italy that very small
        breed of pigs which we have and which is so much better
        than any Italian pig. He had seen rows and rows of
        these little pigs hanging outside the butchers' shops in
        London ; they were ever so small, and any one who would
        introduce them into Italy might make a fortune. It
        turned out that he meant sucking-pigs. He could not
        conceive why the Italians should not eat sucking-pigs if
        they could get them, so he concluded they must be a kind
        peculiar to England.
             On the 17th May 1888, we received the first copy of
        Ex Voto : an Account of the Sacro Monte or New Jerusalem
        at Varallo-Sesia, with some Notice of Tabachetti's remaining
         Work at Crea. The motto on the title-page is "11 n'y a
        que deux ennemis de la religion—le trop peu et le trop ;
         et des deux, le trop est mille fois le plus dangereux"
         (L'Abbe Mabillon, 1698). The dedication runs thus :
         " Ai Varallesi e Valsesiani 1' Autore Riconoscente."
             Before Butler wrote Ex Voto the chapels were not
         very well cared for ; after the publication of his book
         Tabachetti's great " Journey to Calvary " was admirably
         restored by Signor Arienta, and any one at all in the habit
         of judging art could then at once see that it is a work of
         the first quality; but this was not so easy in 1888. It

xxv,    DISCOVERING THE SACRO MONTE                        63
must still be difficult for any one to discover at first sight i*s*
that the " Massacre of the Innocents," by Paracca, is Aet J*
better than many of the inferior chapels. It takes a long
time for a person to learn to recognise fine work in a form
of art with which he is unfamiliar, and mangy wigs, pink
noses, shiny cheeks, broken fingers, and hands swollen with
repeated coats of paint are no help. The fact that these
defects were much more obvious before Butler wrote Ex
Voto than they are now added enormously to the difficulty
of his work, for he was practically discovering the Sacro
Monte under very unfavourable conditions. Some day,
perhaps, all the chapels will have been as well restored as
the " Journey to Calvary," and then the casual visitor will
find it easier to do justice to the best of them.
     One of the illustrations in Ex Voto (p. 189) represents
Butler standing by the side of Gaudenzio's statue of
Stefano Scotto. He had this done to show how real this
statue looks even when compared with a living figure. It
looked so real in the photograph that Mrs. Doncaster,
mistaking Scotto's gaberdine for a petticoat, asked Mrs.
Cathie whether that was the lady Mr. Butler was going
to marry.

                J l-
            " i
r-"U>b ^'11 ~

a\U-'— f±4cC*smS4> /*?(/
                         y? 72«j^.

                             CHAPTER XXVII
                                1888—Part II.     1889
                    NARCISSUS, THE UNIVERSAL REVIEW,
            AND PREPARING FOR THE LIFE OF DR. BUTLER
  1888 In June 1888 we published Narcissus, the words written
Aet* s* and the music composed by Samuel Butler and Henry
        Festing Jones.        Although we were trying to imitate
        Handel we did not dare to call our work an Oratorio, still
        less did we dare to call it an Oratorio Buffo, which is what
        it really is, so we called it a Dramatic Cantata, meaning by
        dramatic no more than that the singers are named, as in
        Saul. This is the Argument :
             Part I. Narcissus, a simple shepherd, and Amaryllis, a prudent
        shepherdess, with companions who form the chorus, have aban
        doned pastoral pursuits and embarked on a course of speculation
        upon the Stock Exchange. This results in the loss of the
        hundred pounds upon which Narcissus and Amaryllis had intended
        to marry. Their engagement is broken off and the condolences
        of the chorus end Part I.
             Part II. In the interval between the parts the aunt and god
        mother of Narcissus has died at an advanced age and is discovered
        to have been worth one hundred thousand pounds, all of which she
        has bequeathed to her nephew and godson. This removes the
        obstacle to his union with Amaryllis ; but the question arises as to
        what securities the money is to be invested in. At first he is
        inclined to resume his speculations and to buy Egyptian bonds,
        American railways, mines, etc. ; but, yielding to the advice of
         Amaryllis, he resolves to place the whole of it in the Three
         per cent Consolidated Bank Annuities, to marry at once, and to
        live comfortably upon the income. With the congratulations
        and approbation of the chorus the work is brought to a conclusion.
              There was a good deal of discussion going on at the
                                         64

>jr'
     y? fi«J^-

                   XX '• !l
           ..      . .       . ' ¦ »\ BUTLER
                                   • .< >rds writt
        1                     •            .'id Hen:
                                           rq imicir-
                                          .-atorio, sf •
                                      . which is wl\
                                     i x, meaning b-
                                  ."i named, as i:
                                A inuryliis, a prudei.t
                           > ¦. . iiorus, have aba.n-
                       ¦. -i course of speculation
                         . •« in the loss of tin
                      ... Amaryllis had intendrj
                 i    . :it¥ and the condolence-
                    he parts the aunt and £od-
              .. lanced aye arc! is discovucJ
          v >u-*nd pounds, a!' of which ciic
      <¦ :..fl godson.              1 liis removes the
. . ».-\l!is; but the question arises as to
  i* 10 he invested in. At first he is
  • :!.:rions and to buy Egyptian bonds,
 ¦¦¦> ; but, yielding to the advwe of
• --e rhe whole of it in tne Thiee
• 'v:ni ii;-r\ to marry at once, ;«nd to
          ...e.      With the cor.;;r:iiula:ions
 ¦• ..ie work is brought ioa».inuiisijn.
   •I of discussion going on at the
        64

/? 7?u^^.

xxvn                      NARCISSUS                          65
time in musical circles about additional accompaniments to 1888
the Messiah, and Butler wrote a few lines to record our Aet- Ja
wishes as to any performance of Narcissus that might
possibly have been contemplated :
              May he be cursed for evermore
              Who tampers with Narcissus' score ;
              May he by poisonous snakes be bitten
              Who writes more parts than what we've written.
              We tried to make our music clear
              For those who sing and those who hear,
             Not lost and muddled up and drowned
              In overdone orchestral sound ;
              So kindly leave the work alone
              Or do it as we want it done.
     Hitherto the musical societies of the country have
adopted the former of the alternatives proposed in the
concluding couplet.
     Butler was not satisfied with having only written half
of Narcissus, and was glad to get it published and off his
mind, so that he could turn his attention to Ulysses which,
as he wrote to his sister 3rd June 1886 (ante, II. p. 38), was
to be its successor. He was only to write half of Ulysses,
but by adding these two halves together he would be able
to say that he had written and composed the equivalent
of a whole Handelian oratorio. For the present, however,
he was not able to do much with Ulysses, because he was
too closely occupied with other work ; but it began
gradually to shape itself.
     When he returned from photographing the statues at
Varallo he was disgusted to find that the authorities of the
British Museum had removed Frost's Lives of Eminent
Christians from its accustomed shelf in the Reading Room
of the British Museum. He had been in the habit of
using the book to prop up his blotting-pad. in order to
make for himself a sloping desk, and the loss of it made
him feel " as Wordsworth is generally supposed to have
felt when he became aware that Lucy was in her grave,
and exclaimed so emphatically that this would make a
considerable difference to him, or words to that effect."
About this time Harry Quilter, who knew Butler slightly,
started The Universal Review, and asked Butler to write
    VOL. II                                                F

        66             TRACKING TABACHETTI                          xxvn
  1888 for it. Butler, without his Eminent Christians, was at a
Aet. 51 josg . ^g jij ^jg jjest however, and wrote for the July
        number of the review, " Quis desiderio . . . ? " wherein
        he compared himself to Wordsworth and, for this purpose,
        brought both Lucy and Moore's " young lady who never
        loved the dear gazelle—and I don't believe she did " out
        of their pigeon-hole at last. At the end of the article
        was this
                  Note by Professor Garnett,1 British Museum.
            The frost has broken up. Mr. Butler is restored to literature.
        Mr. Mudie may make himself easy. England will still boast a
        humourist ; and the late Mr. Darwin (to whose posthumous
        machinations the removal of the book was owing) will continue
        to be confounded.
             This meant that Frost's Lives of Eminent Christians
        had been restored to its shelf. Butler was in consequence
        able to contribute nine more articles to The Universal
        Review.
            This autumn I did not accompany him when he went
        abroad, because my brother Edward was coming home
        from India for a holiday, and I did not want to be out of
        reach. Butler went first to Dinant on the Meuse, Cavaliere
        Alessandro Godio having shown that Tabachetti, the
        sculptor of the great " Journey to Calvary " chapel at
        Varallo, came from there and that his name was Jean.
        With the assistance of Monsieur Remade, Butler succeeded
        in identifying Tabachetti of Varallo with Jean de Wespin
        of Dinant.       He also went to Namur, where he saw
        deeds relating to the de Wespin family, and collected
        information.
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
            Dinant. 7 Aug. 1888—I have found a lot about Tabachetti's
        family and " hope " to find at Namur a notice in the archives of
        the state of our man ; so I go there at once. There is a John
        Tabaguet figuring there in the year 1587 which is one of our
        missing years. The family name was De Wespin ; they were
        the leading people in Dinant, but became so numerous that their
                             1 A mistake for " Mr. Garnett."

 xxvii          AN UPROARIOUS PICNIC                           67
scions adopted new names among which were Tabaguet, Grossir, 1888
 Bovir and others.                                                Aet- $'
     Varallo. 12 Aug. 1888—I found our Tabachetti at Namur.
He was still expatrii and the court was appointing him a tuteur
or guardien to receive some property that had devolved upon him.
They are immensely excited at Dinant and Namur. I felt
almost as though I were Tabachetti coming back after an absence
of 300 years,
     Varallo. 26 Aug. 1888—To-day is the festa at Civiasco
which we attended last year. It is spoiled by the rain. By the
way, they have two passeri solitarii at the hotel. One of them
knows me perfectly well and sings very conversationally. The
other is not so easy to get on with and is more uncertain in his
temper, still he is not a bad bird.
      The people at Varallo were so pleased with Ex Voto
that Cavaliere Angelo Rizzetti translated it into Italian,
and Butler was asked to look over the MS., criticise and
make suggestions. He found it, however, so crude and
" illegible that I have determined to chuck it and have
struck. It would, I think, about settle my hash. They
must get some one to revise it and pay him if they want it
done."
                       Butler to H. F. Jones.
     Varallo. Tuesday morning, Aug. 1888—I went up to La
Rese yesterday and was not tired. I had a very good view and,
coming down, joined a party of about 50 Varallesi who were
having a picnic. I need hardly say they were a little uproarious.
The Sotto Prefetto, the Procuratore del Re and every one else
wore the ladies' hats, so did I. You should have seen me in a
lady's hat turning the hurdy-gurdy while they danced on the
grass under the chestnuts. By the way, we must get in the
winds and Aeolus somehow [into Ulysses] if only in allusion, as I
want the bagpipes to do the fizzing and hissing of the escaping
winds as they tear the bag in twain and rouse the sympathetic
main.
     The seats of the stalls in the church of Santa Maria
Maggiore at Bergamo are ornamented with intarsia work
executed by Bergamasque artists and designed in part by
Lorenzo Lotto. Butler had admired this work for years
and, having now a camera, wrote to Cagnoni, who had
become maestro di cappella at Bergamo, asking if he

        68                  CAGNONI'S VESPERS
  im could get him leave to photograph it. Cagnoni replying
Aet- s* in the affirmative, Butler went to Bergamo, where he took
        eight negatives, but the light was bad and the results were
        useless.
                                Butler to H. F. Jones.
            Bergamo. 4 Sept. 1888—I heard Cagnoni's Vespers on
        Sunday. The music was very good and did not bore me at all ;
        but there was one very comic climax, led up to with much
        pomp and circumstance, and then, when all was hushed and you
        could hear a pin drop, the harp gave out the following melody
        and developed it with very pretty variations :
            I can't be certain that I have got more than the two first
        bars right, but I will swear tq them and to the spirit of the
        others.
             He went from Bergamo to Verona, Padua, Venice,
        Bologna, Parma, Milan and back to Varallo. On the
        way he was stopped at Verona by floods, but not so
        seriously as in 1882.
            You could see the river rushing by, past their open kitchen
        window, and the people inside were working on, just as though
        nothing had happened or were going to happen. So, if a star
        were seen approaching and must hit the earth at 7 p.m. on
        Friday, The Times would be published as usual on Friday
        morning.
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
            Varallo. 28 Sept. 1888—To-day in the "Ecce Homo"
        chapel, satisfied that Tabachetti worked in it, I wondered whether 1
        could find his portrait. Leonardo is in the chapel, next but one
        to Scotto, and I said to myself, " If Tabachetti is in the chapel he
        will be next to Leonardo." There is a very beautiful figure in
        that position which you don't know and I said, "That ought to
        be Tabachetti." I went up to see if I could find anything
        written, and found V cut deep in the hat, before baking, on the
        off-side of the figure, invisible from the front. V, as the Italians

 xxvn     THE END OF MRS. DONCASTER                                  69
 have no W, would do very well for Wespin. I have a photo of 1888
 the head. There is no writing on any other figure.                     Aet. 5a
     After leaving Varallo he made a wild-goose chase of
 an excursion to Crevacuore to see another sanctuary
 which might have contained work by Tabachetti, but did
 not, and then returned to London :
     The first shop I saw was Byle's eating house ; the young
man in the seat opposite me began reading John Ingltsant and,
outside, the Salvation Army began singing about " 'eav'nly,
'eav'nly music floating through the hair."
                      Alfred to H. F. Jones.
                                       15 Clifford's Inn, Oct. 13/88.
     Dear Sir—Will you please be so kind as to take Mr. Butler
to a theatre one evening next week, as I think the change would
do him good. He is having rather a harassing time just now.
If you will do so I shall be very pleased.—Yours very truly,
                                                Alfred Cathie.
     This autumn, Mrs. Doncaster having become too old
and infirm to be of much use, Butler dismissed her with a
pension, and for the future Alfred's aunt, Mrs. Cathie,
attended to him in his rooms. The pension kept Mrs.
Doncaster out of the workhouse till 1898, when a
paralytic stroke sent her to the infirmary, where she
soon afterwards died ; and Butler did as he had promised
when he induced her to drop the insurance on her life,
and had her suitably buried.
     In " A Sculptor and a Shrine " published in The
Universal Review for November 1888 Butler gives all the
information he had collected since the publication of Ex
Voto relating to Tabachetti, and also a description of the
figures at Montrigone down the Val Sesia. In this article
he also shows reason for believing the figure with the V on
it in the " Ecce Homo " chapel at Varallo to be a portrait
or Tabachetti by himself. It stands with one he supposes
to be D' Enrico (another sculptor on the mountain) and
also with statues representing Leonardo da Vinci and
Stefano Scotto—replicas of those which are in Gaudenzio's
"Crucifixion" chapel. He thought at first that the

       7o            CORRECTIONS FOR EX VOTO                           xxvn
 1889 statue called II Vecchietto, the most beautiful on the
Aet 53 mountam> was a portrait of Tabachetti by himself, but
       subsequent discoveries made by the Avvocato Negri of
       Casale-Monferrato have shown that Tabachetti died in
       1615, aged about fifty-five, and the Vecchietto, being the
       portrait of a very old man, cannot be intended for him,
       though it may be, and probably is, his work.                  These
       discoveries were communicated verbally to Butler by the
       Avvocato, who used them afterwards in his own pamphlet,
       II Santuario di Crea (Alessandria, 1902).
             Butler prepared a leaflet (4 pp.) of " Additions and
       Corrections " for Ex Voto, containing the substance of
       " A Sculptor and a Shrine," to be given to any readers of
        Ex Voto who wrote to the publishers for it. He also pre
       pared "a revised, enlarged and adnotated copy of the
       book " of which two copies only were printed (1890).
                             Butler to Alfred Marks.
                                                           Feb. 14, 1889.
            Dear Marks—I am afraid the little book you have referred
       to in yours of Feb. 13 \_A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement]
       was written by me. My people edited my letters home. I did
       not write freely to them, of course, because they were my people ;
       if I was at all freer anywhere they cut it out before printing it—
       besides I had not yet shed my Cambridge skin, and its trail is
       everywhere I am afraid perceptible. I have never read the book
       myself. I dipped into a few pages when they sent it to me in New
       Zealand, but saw " prig " written upon them so plainly that T read
       no more and never have and never mean to. I am told the book
       sells for /i a copy in New Zealand—in fact, last Autumn I know
       Sir W. Buller gave that for a copy in England ; so as a specula
       tion it is worth 2/6 or 3/.
            I stole a passage or two from it for Erewhon—meaning to let
       it go and never be reprinted at any rate during my lifetime.
            I will get Mrs. Marks's book from Mudie's ; that it is excellent
       goes without saying, but you know very well that I never read
       unless under some compulsion. Believe me, yours truly,
                                                           S. Butler.
             Alfred Marks was a brother of the artist, Henry Stacy
       Marks. Evidently he had picked up a copy of the book
       cheap, and wrote to ask Butler if he was the author.
       Butler did not keep Marks's letter, nor a copy of his

xxvi,            DR. BUTLER'S PAPERS                           71
reply, but Marks pasted the reply into his copy of the 1889
book, which after his death was bought by Mr. Alexander et- JI
H. Turnbull of Wellington, New Zealand (ante, I. p. 102).
 Mr. Turnbull sent me a copy of Butler's letter, with a
letter from himself, 23rd August 1913, in which he says :
    The Sir W. Buller referred to in the letter was Sir Walter
Lawry Buller—author of a large work on the Birds of New
Zealand. I knew him quite well ; he was collecting New
Zealand books in 1889 and it is quite likely he told me the price
he paid for A First Year and I may have passed on the informa
tion to H. E. Clarke and so it may have reached Butler's ears.
     On reading these letters I remembered that Herbert
Edwin Clarke had met a rich New Zealander in Elder's
office, where he was working. Clarke, hearing that the
New Zealander was collecting books about the colony,
showed him a copy of A First Tear in Canterbury Settlement,
and told him he had bought it at some second-hand shop
for a few shillings. The New Zealander offered him a
pound for the book, and Clarke handed it over. It was
either Clarke or I who told Butler about the transaction.
     During 1887 Butler had been much at Shrewsbury on
business, and early in 1888 the leading members of the
Shrewsbury Archaeological Society had expressed a wish,
through Mr. William Phillips of Canonbury, Shrewsbury,
that he should write a memoir of his grandfather and
father for their Quarterly Journal. This he had agreed to
do after he should have finished Ex Voto. The memoir
of Dr. Butler was to be about 40 or 80 pages ; but
" Let no man say ' Come, I will write a duodecimo.' "
In December 1888 his sisters, with the idea of helping him
to write the memoir, gave him his grandfather's correspond
ence extending from 1 790 to 1 839, and this correspondence
was a revelation.
                   Butler to William Phillips.
    17 Dec. 1888—Everything from first to last, beginning (as
yet, so far as I have dipped into earlier correspondence) with a
correspondence in 1804 which would melt the heart of a stone,
is good, straightforward, generous, forbearing and all that an
anxious grandson would desire his grandfather to be. More I

        72                  DISCOVERING DR. BUTLER                                           xxvu
  1889 cannot say ; less would wholly fail to convey an idea of the respect
        that
        impresses
A*t. si and    is
               publish
               admiration
                   partme.
                         ofit the
                                as
                                But—I
                                with
                                   mywhich
                                   game   must
                                         next
                                           : I have
                                                 the
                                                 volume.
                                                  make  gotmytoOf
                                                      character   docourse
                                                                worknow
                                                                     it.into
                                                                           first
                                                                             ita full-sized
                                                                                  knownsell,
                                                                                 won't         but
                                                                                                me
                                                                                            tobook
               And so the paper for the Shrewsbury Archaeological
        Journal had to be given up, and Butler set to work upon
        The Life and Letters of Dr. Samuel Butler, which was not
        published till 1896.
              The Rev. F. E. Gretton and the Rev. Canon Evans of
        Durham, to whom the next two letters are addressed, had
        been pupils of Dr. Butler.
                               Butler to the Rev. F. E. Gretton.
              12 March 1889—The conception I form of my grandfather's
        character is briefly as follows. ... I imagine that his strength
        lay in his combinations rather than in abnormal development in
        any single direction. He loved a joke dearly, but his own humour
        is only very average. He could, and did at times, write admirably
        —sometimes, indeed, incomparably, as in his inscription on his
        father and mother's monument—but he cannot be called a great
        writer.1 His judgements on other writers are not to be relied on
        —witness his enthusiasm for Lucien Bonaparte's Charlemagne, and
        his Treatise on the Art of English Composition (MS.) which
        would ruin any man's style who paid the slightest heed to it. He
        was not a seer of visions and a dreamer of dreams. To genius he
        can hardly, as it seems to me, lay claim. But, on the other hand,
        indomitable perseverance, quick perception of the main point in
        any question, patience under provocation—almost unbelievable by
        anyone who has not the letters before him, some of which I shall
        print and which have done more than anything else to make me
        so enamoured of his character. Placable almost to a fault ;
        generous not less so ; straightforwardness, sincerity, and hatred of
        anything mean or unworthy, absolutely unsurpassable. Ever ready
        to help a friend or even an enemy if down on his luck ; no labour
        was too much for him ; the evidence of this which I shall bring
        forward (of course unobtrusively) will need no comment ; a very
        considerable talent for a very large range of things ; the ensemble
        of these qualities, and I have omitted much else, seems to me
             1 "An inscription to the scholars of those days was like the sound of the bugle to a
        war-horse. I have heard my father tell how Dr. Parr once said to rrjy grandfather,
        * It's all very well, Sammy, to say that So-and-so is a good scholar, but can he write an
        inscription ? ' "— Life and Letters of Dr. Butler, I. 255.

 xxvii DR. BUTLER AND GEORGE PONTIFEX 73
both far more rare and far more admirable than brilliancy in one 1889
or two directions with marked deficiency in others.                 Aet- 53
     Again, his courtliness of manner which appears in nearly
every one of the countless letters by him in my possession ; and
his marvellous meekness ; this last appears more especially in the
diary he kept during his last illness which was full of misgivings
that he had not been good enough.
           Butler to the Rev. Canon Evans of Durham.
     21 March 1889—I take it he was not a poet, not a humourist
(though he dearly loved a joke), not a good judge of literature
(though he could write, and did sometimes write, admirably).
I doubt his having been a man of what is commonly called genius
—whatever that may mean. Whether he was passionate or not I
do not know and should particularly wish for information. In
his letters his command of his temper is beyond all praise—simply
admirable—but I have always, rightly or wrongly, imagined him
as a little hasty and choleric, though only superficially. . . . On
the other hand his straightforwardness, robustness, generous
placability, kindness of heart, laboriousness, and a hundred other
good qualities, have made me fairly lose my heart to him.
      Reading his grandfather's papers and correspondence
had inspired Butler with an almost Chinese reverence for
his ancestor, and showed him that his previous opinion
about him had been wrong. This meant that conse
quently George Pontifex in The Way of All Flesh was a
libel. I did my best, and so did others, to persuade him
that it could not matter, that he had presented a very
lifelike and amusing old gentleman, and that the more it
differed from his grandfather, the less any one could
accuse him of being disrespectful to the real man ; but
we did not succeed. He was as scrupulous and punctilious
as his own Ernest, and intended to ease his conscience by
altering that part of his book ; but other things occupied
him, and he never did it.
      He used to think he resembled his grandfather, and
in some respects he did : let us consider how far the fore
going estimate applies to himself.
     " Dr. Butler dearly loved a joke, but did not often say
a good thing." This is from Butler's MS. Note-Book.

         74                        HUMOUR                                   XXVII
                                       Twins
  188953 WOman
Aet.               Mrs. brought
              Old once  Freer, Dr.
                                 two
                                   Butler's
                                      boys tofirst cousin, toldandmesaid
                                                Shrewsbury,                   Dr.
                                                                     thattoa silly
          Butler that she hoped he would put them in the same form and
         in the same bed-room.
              " They have never," she said, " been separated, they are like
         twins ; and indeed I may say they are twins, for there is only 17
         months between them.
             To which Mrs. Freer told me that Dr. Butler replied with a
         grave face, " Good heavens, Madam, what a labour ! "
               Another example of Dr. Butler's humour is quoted in
         the Introduction to Butler's Life of his grandfather. As
         the doctor was entering the schoolroom one day, a writ
         ing on the wall by some boy of the lower school caught
         his eye : " Butler is an old fool."
               " Ah," said Dr. Butler, " the melancholy truth stares
         me in the face."
               I have nothing to say against these as examples of
         humour, but they were exceptional efforts, whereas
         humour was one of the grandson's most distinguishing
         characteristics. It was not that one could say he had the
         gift of humour, in the sense that he was complete without
         it, and it had happened to be added, as a man may happen
         to wear a ring which has been given him ; his whole nature
         was penetrated with it. But at the same time his whole
         nature was not less penetrated with reverence, and the
         combination gave to his conversation and to his writing
         a peculiar richness.
              Here is a note made by Butler :
             There will be no comfortable and safe development of our
         social arrangements—I mean we shall not get infanticide, and the
         permission of suicide, nor cheap and easy divorce — till Jesus
         Christ's ghost has been laid ; and the best way to lay it is to be
         a moderate churchman.
              Assuming for a moment that Dr. Butler would have
         agreed with the substance of this note, it would certainly
         never have occurred to him to state it in such a form.
              At the Erewhon Dinner in 1914, Mr. Desmond
         MacCarthy spoke very felicitously of the exploring quality

xxvn                     REVERENCE                              75
of Butler's humour, saying that he would send it forth as 1889
Noah sent the dove out of the ark to search and find if Aet SI
perhaps there might be any solid ground in the neigh
bourhood ; and it seldom returned without having made
some interesting discovery.
     In Alps and Sanctuaries Butler was thinking of himself
when he wrote thus of Lord Beaconsfield :
    Earnestness was his greatest danger, but if he did not quite
overcome it (as, indeed, who can ? it is the last enemy that shall
be subdued), he managed to veil it with a fair amount of success.
     To veil his own earnestness he turned most naturally
to humour, qualifying it with its opposite, as all the great
humorists have done, to express his deepest and most
solemn convictions. I suppose that those who have once
got the double flavour of this kind of humour well into
their heads, as Butler got the flavour of Chateau Lafitte
into his, will find the ordinary growths unpalatable in com
parison. He knew that, as he says somewhere, "A litde
levity will save many a good heavy thing from sinking."
Sometimes, of course, he risked being misunderstood, but
he was writing neither for those who do not think over
what they read, nor for those who are easily thrown off
their balance, nor for those whose sight, blinded by the
brilliance of the surface, cannot pierce through and discern
the solid ground beneath—he was writing, as Mozart wrote,
for himself and a few intimate friends.
     In the matter of Dr. Krause's Kosmos article Mr.
Darwin by his silence appeared to admit that he had no
defence to make, and thereafter nothing was bad enough
for Mr. Darwin. Butler made the following note ; and
if the bitterness of the opening appears unjustified, we
must remember that he knew nothing about the letters
sent to me in 1 910 by Mr. Darwin's son.
    I do not see how I can well call Mr. Darwin the Pecksniff of
Science, though this is exactly what he is ; but I think I may call
Lord Bacon the Pecksniff of his age and then, a little later, say
that Mr. Darwin is the Bacon of the Victorian era. This will
be like passing one item through two different accounts, as though
 I had made Pecksniff debtor to Bacon and Bacon debtor to
Darwin, instead of entering Pecksniff debtor to Darwin at once.

      76                          STYLE                       XXVII
li*9        Apropos of this there is a further note reminding
e ' SJ himself to call Tennyson the Darwin of Poetry, and
       Darwin the Tennyson of Science.
            This note about Pecksniff resembles that other note he
       made at Miss Savage's funeral (ante, I. p. 441) about the
       lady who was not at all a fit person to be entrusted with
       the keys of Hell and of Death. In the one case he was
       grizzling under Darwin's treatment of him, in the other
       he was plunged in grief for the loss of Miss Savage ; but
       neither his resentment nor his sorrow could restrain his
       bubbling humour, and he did not care who misunder
       stood him.
            Buder wrote admirably, I think I may say, always,
       and not merely sometimes as his grandfather did in an
       occasional inscription. Mr. Bernard Shaw in reviewing
       Samuel Butler : A Critical Study, by Gilbert Cannan, in
       The New Statesman, 8th May 191 5, says, quite justly,
       that Butler " had the supreme sort of style that never
       smells of the lamp, and therefore seems to the kerosene
       stylist to be no style at all."
            In the note "Style" {The Note-Books, 19 12) Butler
       speaks of his style as "just common, simple straight
       forwardness." A great deal of effort went to the attain
       ing of this simplicity ; but the effort was not spent in
       consciously labouring after any style. He wrote to Sir
       W. T. Marriott (14th Aug. 1862, ante, I. p. 98), " I feel
       strongly and write as I feel." His effort was to ascertain
       as precisely as possible what it was that he felt, and
       then to do his best to state it as clearly and tersely as
       possible—a method which he had discovered for himself
       as early as 1858, when he wrote the essay "On English
       Composition" (ante, I. p. 56). The process involved re
       consideration and re-writing ; as he told Miss Savage in
       November 1 87 1 (ante, I. p. 146), " I am not to be trusted
       to write three lines unless I can keep them three weeks."
       It would probably be correct to say that everything he
       published was re- written, none of it less than three
       times, much of it four, five, six and even seven times.
       I suppose that Erevohon Revisited was the least re-written
       of his books — that is as a book ; but parts of the

 XXVII                   CRITICISM                          77
material had already been reconsidered and re- written 1889
before he started on the book itself.                          Aet *J
      As an illustration of his skill in placing le mot juste,
take this sentence in "Eating and Proselytising" {The
Note-Books, 1912) : "As we get older we must digest
more quietly still, our appetite is less, our gastric juices
are no longer so eloquent, they have lost that cogent
fluency which carried away all that came in contact with
it." The whole note should be read for the effect to be
appreciated, but this quotation will suffice for the moment.
Words like " eloquent " and " that cogent fluency " do
not fall into such places without coaxing ; and he put
them where he did after much thought and because he
wanted to make his meaning clear and interesting.
Again, let the reader refer to the note headed " Our
Trivial Bodies," where Butler speaks of Handel sitting
in his room at Gopsall writing the Messiah. Gopsall did
not get there by accident ; only a writer susceptible to
the magic of sound could have placed it where it is.
And when he made this note he did not believe that the
Messiah was written at Gopsall ; he had already accepted
the opinion of Schcelcher, whose Life of Handel he
possessed, that the legend about Gopsall was not sup
ported by the facts. But he wanted the word to come
as a shock after the solemn beauty of the passage which
leads to it, and he placed it there—legend or no legend
—intending it to arrest the reader's attention.
      Butler's judgements about other writers often differed
from much of the expressed opinion of his time ; but
the expressed judgement of any time is frequendy merely
an indolent echo from some previous time ; and so much
do all judgements require reconsideration that the history
of literature is the history of the reconsideration of
judgements. Butler's judgements were arrived at by
thinking the matter out for himself.           Had he been
engaged, as Dr. Butler was, in god-fathering some such
work as the English translation of Prince Lucien Bona
parte's Charlemagne, he might—he probably would—have
overpraised it as an act of friendly good-nature, but he
would have known what he was doing ; and, as he often

        78                 OTHER QUALITIES                            xxvn
  1889 said, it is only when we deceive ourselves that the
Aet. 53 truth js not m us> And he would have managed so
        that any impartial reader would be put upon his guard
        and made to suspect his real sentiments.
             I suppose he was a seer of visions and a dreamer of
        dreams. " Life," he wrote, " is a dream, and that is
        why all great men have been dreamers." He was of
        course a poet—one of those who write in prose rather
        than in verse. As to genius—Miss Savage said he had
        it, but she would have found it as difficult as he did to
        define genius.
             When we consider the perseverance, the perception of
        the point, the generosity, straightforwardness, robustness,
        kindness of heart, sincerity and hatred of anything mean
        or unworthy, the courtliness of manner and meekness,
        the readiness to help a friend, or even an enemy, if down
        on his luck—the grandfather cannot have been more
        distinguished by these qualities than was the grandson.
             Dr. Butler again was " placable almost to a fault "
        and so was his grandson. I think that none of my
        readers who remember the preface to the second edition
        of Evolution Old and New (ante, I. pp. 370-1) will doubt
        that if Darwin had shown Butler that he had been under
        a misapprehension when he wrote chapter iv. of Unconscious
        Memory, Butler would immediately have done all in his
        power to restore the equilibrium.
             Butler saw Kennedy at Cambridge in the spring of
        1889, and talked to him about Dr. Butler.
                             Dr. Butler's Temper
            About my grandfather I could get very little. I asked if he
        was passionate. Kennedy said :
            "No. I never saw him in a rage," and implied that he
        considered him to have had an even temper.
            I daresay he could be choleric till he had time to think ; but
        he would reflect quickly and when he had made up his mind to
        keep his temper, nothing could upset him.
             Butler was like this himself. As he grew old he was
        occasionally irascible, but I seldom saw an exhibition of

XXVII                      TEMPER                              79
more than momentary annoyance. There is a difference 1889
between the irritability of a man in failing health and the et' S3
 habitual turkey-cock bad temper to which he had supposed
 his grandfather to be constitutionally subject before his
papers showed him that it was not so.
      Mr. Booth in Five Tears in New Zealand (p. 77)
 has a passage about his having gone on ahead, and
 Butler and another man, Cook, were to join him. The
 river had to be crossed, and it was swollen ; so Booth
 sat down, concealed by a boulder, and went to sleep.
 When Butler and Cook came to the river, finding no
 trace of Booth, they concluded he must have been
 drowned, and began searching for his dead body. Booth
 woke up and laughed at them :
     Butler was hot-tempered, and anything approaching to ridicule
where he himself was concerned was a mortal insult. He turned
pale with passion and rode off; and I do not think he ever
entirely forgave me for not being drowned when he had under
taken so much trouble to discover my body.
     Butler was then under thirty ; I did not know him
till he was over forty. I never saw him turn " pale
with passion." I have seen him made angry by some
thing " approaching to ridicule where he himself was
concerned " ; but he never looked upon such ridicule as
a " mortal insult," and I am sure Mr. Booth must be
mistaken in thinking that Butler never forgave him. I
suppose that in his youth Butler had given way to anger ;
on recovering he saw that he had been betrayed into
making a fool of himself; whereupon he thought it
necessary to apologise. This must have seemed to him a
clumsy process and caused him to adopt a different
method. I have no doubt that when he "rode off" in
New Zealand it was to avoid speaking till he had regained
control of himself, for this was his practice when I knew
him. If, after he had become cool, the matter appeared
trifling, he put it away and said nothing. If he thought
it of sufficient importance, then, but not till he had
himself under complete control, he would enforce his
considered views. For this purpose he would pretend to

         80         GETTING ON WITH PEOPLE                       xxvn
  1889 be still angry, and would sometimes overdo it and behave
Aet. 53 jn an extremely unpleasant manner. After making his
         position clear he would be silent. If the offender took
        the opportunity to speak a word of sorrow or apology
        Butler accepted it at once, and became as mild as a sunny
        spring morning, with such suddenness that a stranger
        could not believe he was the same man. After this the
        subject was never referred to again. But if the offender
        did not show signs of sorrow or apology Butler treated
        him for the future as a person not to be encouraged.
             The opportunities for the exercise of some of the
        qualities enumerated above were less frequent with Butler
        than with his grandfather ; for there was one quality
        possessed by Dr. Butler which his grandson has omitted.
        Dr. Butler had the faculty of getting on with many
        different kinds of people and of guiding men ; during
        the latter half of his time at Shrewsbury he seems almost
        to have ruled the town as well as the school. I doubt
        whether the grandson would have succeeded had he
        attempted to establish and govern a great public school ;
        but then I doubt whether the grandfather would have
        succeeded had he attempted to write Erewhon or The
        Way of All Flesh or Life and Habit. Butler did not like
        to be taken off the subject that engrossed him ; for him
        and his work plenty of uninterrupted time and complete
        tranquillity were essential. It must have happened to him
        over and over again to pass a whole day without speaking
        to a dozen different people ; and that can never have
        happened to Dr. Butler, at least not during term time.
        And to make up a full dozen we must include omnibus
        conductors, the attendants at the British Museum who
        took his umbrella and brought him his books, the waiter
        in the restaurant, his laundress, Alfred, and me.
      ** Butler would have been distressed if he had had to
        attend to the organising, the management of under-
        masters, the conciliating of parents and all the incessant,
        uninteresting, petty details which are, I suppose, incidental
        to the life of a headmaster. Many of these details must,
        naturally, be similar to those incidental to the life of a
        man at the head of a large concern of any kind, and I

 xxv.1         COLLECTING MATERIAL                           81
 remember thinking how unsuited Butler would have been 1889
 to the kind of life I saw in a solicitor's office, and how the Aet- 53
 perpetual interruptions would have worried him. But
we must remember that Dr. Butler was not successful at
Shrewsbury from the beginning ; for the first half of his
time, he says, he met with hostility and bitter ill-treat
ment. If Butler had been placed in his grandfather's
position he might in a few years have adapted himself
to his surroundings and developed powers which, as it
happened, were never called forth. But considerations of
what might have happened under imaginary circumstances
are seldom worth troubling about.
     During the early part of 1889 Butler was much occu
pied with his grandfather's Life. He went to Ken-
 nington, near Ashford, where he saw Dr. Welldon, the
 last survivor of Dr. Butler's assistant masters. He had
 followed Jeudwine as second master at Shrewsbury during
Dr. Butler's last six months, and was afterwards head
master of Tonbridge. Butler found him " a very kind,
good old gentleman." He went to Cambridge, where he
dined in Hall at St. John's College, and where he con
versed with Dr. Kennedy and with Professor J. E. B.
Mayor, John Willis Clark, and others who remembered
Dr. Butler or his pupils, and who were interested in the
history of his period. He went to Kenilworth and saw
an old lady who remembered his great-grandmother, and
he went to the School dinner at Shrewsbury.
     The house at the Holborn Gateway of Barnard's
Inn, where my chambers were at this time, was occupied
by Dr. Augustus GreatRex, and once, when I was ill, he
attended me. On discovering Butler's identity GreatRex
told us that he remembered his grandfather, who, he
said, gave him his first fee. This seemed incredible, for
Dr. Butler died in 1839, and Dr. GreatRex, though an
elderly man, did not appear old enough to have been in
practice fifty years ago. It turned out, however, that the
father of Dr. GreatRex was veterinary surgeon at Eccles-
hall, where was the palace of the Bishop of Lichfield, and
the bishop had a nomination for Christ's Hospital, which
had been promised him some time before. He had
     VOL. II                                             G

         82                CHATEAU MARGAUX                              mn
  1889 intended to use it for a member of his own family but,
Aet- 53 having been appointed a bishop before it came, he thought
        such a course would be beneath his dignity, and offered
        it to the veterinary surgeon for his son. Augustus
        GreatRex accordingly was educated at Christ's Hospital.
         In his holidays he came to see his benefactor, and inquired
         after his health. The bishop, who was nearing the end of
         his life, replied :
              "Ah yes. Now, you want to be a medical man,
         don't you ? Very well then, you shall feel my pulse and
         tell me how I am. It happens, fortunately, that I am
         rather better to-day, so you can give a good report, and
         that will be satisfactory to both of us."
              The boy did as he was told, and Dr. Butler gave him a
        couple of guineas as his fee.
              Butler, commenting on this, supposed that the old
        schoolmaster, knowing the ways of young things and how
         they are liable to change, had performed this little
        comedy with the intention of fixing his protege in the
        desire to become a doctor.
              Except this anecdote, I do not remember that Butler
        got any information about his grandfather from Dr. Great-
         Rex, who must have been too young at the time of the
        bishop's death to remember much about him. But there
        was an anecdote about Mrs. GreatRex which pleased him.
        She was a member of an old Yorkshire family, people
        with ideas of solid comfort and good living, and famous
        for their cellar. The first words that Mrs. GreatRex
        uttered as a child were not " Mama " or " Papa " or any
        thing of that kind but " Chateau Margaux."
             " The Aunt, the Nieces, and the Dog" in The Universal
         Review for May 1889 was made out of some old letters.
        The article begins :
             When a thing is old, broken, and useless, we throw it on the
        dust-heap, but when it is sufficiently old, sufficiently broken, and
        sufficiently useless, we give money for it, put it into a museum,
        and read papers over it which people come long distances to hear.
        [After developing this theme the article continues :] I have been
       reminded lately of these considerations with more than common
       force by reading the very voluminous correspondence left by my
       grandfather, Dr. Butler, of Shrewsbury, whose memoirs I am

xxvi,                 HONEST TRUTH                                83
engaged in writing. I have found a large number of interesting 1889
letters on subjects of serious import, but must confess that it is to Act. 53
the hardly less numerous lighter letters that I have been most
attracted, nor do I feel sure that my eminent namesake did not
share my predilection. Among other letters in my possession I
have one bundle that has been kept apart, and has evidently no
connection with Dr. Butler's own life. I cannot use these letters,
therefore, for my book, but over and above the charm of their
inspired spelling, I find them of such an extremely trivial nature
that I incline to hope the reader may derive as much amusement
from them as I have done myself, and venture to give them the
publicity here which I must refuse them in my book.
     This dragging in of Dr. Butler's correspondence carries
the suggestion that he found the letters among the bishop's
papers. They were not among the bishop's papers, and
Butler nowhere says they were ; he expressly says they
have no connection with Dr. Butler's own life. Never
theless, while saying one thing, which is the bare fact, he
manages to give the impression of something which is not
the fact. It is one of these cases in which, as he used
to say, " quoting from memory "—
                  There are more lies in honest truth,
                  Believe me, than in half the frauds.
      He was doing what in " Quis desiderio . . . ? " he
naTvely supposes Wordsworth and Moore to have done in
their poems about Lucy and the dear gazelle- fancier.
"Whatever justification Wordsworth and Moore may have
 had for the course they adopted, Butler's reason for putting
 his readers off the scent was that he wished to avoid the
 possibility of any of the family of those concerned being
 offended by the publication of the letters. I found them
 among the papers of an old lady who lived in Westminster.
 Now that she has been dead for more than thirty years there
 can be no harm in saying so. She was the survivor of
 two unmarried sisters, clients of the solicitors with whom
 I was working. When she wrote us a business letter she
 used to begin : " Dear Gentlemen " ; and she appointed
 the members of the firm executors of her will. Neither
 she nor her sister had ever been in a train. She occasion
 ally gave her nieces a day at the Crystal Palace, taking

        84           POETRY'S THREE PROVINCES                           xxvi,
  1889 them there and back from Westminster in a hired fly, and
Aet. 53 when she and her sister went into Kent to stay with the
        aunt and the dog at East Peclcham they drove all the way
        —about 50 miles. I was the clerk entrusted with the
        winding up of the old lady's affairs, and in that capacity I
        ought, strictly speaking, to have thrown these letters
        on the dust-heap, as being " old, broken, and useless " ;
        but they amused me, and I showed them to Buder. He
        was a magpie for pouncing upon anything he thought he
        could turn to account, and persuaded me to let his bureau
        be the dust-heap ; there the letters accordingly reposed
        until they had become " sufficiently old, sufficiently broken,
        and sufficiently useless " to be displayed in the museum of
        Quilter's magazine.
             Buder had met in Italy Signor Pietro Preda, Professor
        of French in the Royal Naval Academy at Livorno. This
        gentleman had written a work, Sulf idea religiosa e civile di
        Dante. Butler, in acknowledging a copy, wrote a letter,
        which I have translated. After saying that he never had
        been and never should be in complete sympathy with
        Dante, he proceeds :
            22 June 1889—I find that those who are devoted to music
        and the arts of painting and sculpture are unwilling to turn to the
        art of literary poetry. On the other hand those who are devoted
        to the art of literary poetry are less interested in music and in the
        fine arts. I am firmly persuaded that our Shakespeare did not like
        music and knew nothing at all about the fine arts. Milton
        certainly loved music, and I admit that a man may successfully
        cultivate two of the three great provinces of poetry, namely (1)
        music ; (2) the arts that are strictly imitative (even when they are
        also creative) ; and (3) literature ; but to cultivate all three—this
        is too much. Human sympathy is not capable of embracing
        simultaneously three wives so exacting and so jealous of one
        another. For me there exist two poets, Homer and Shakespeare;
        the others are doubtless very good sort of people but I have not,
        and never shall have, the honour of their acquaintance.
            This is, I know, a brutal confession, but a man had better not
        pretend to have something which he has not. When I want
        poetry to set to music I write the words myself, but for the rest
        I prefer prose—prose as terse, as lucid, as sincere as I can make it.
        Those who go down into the Inferno for the purpose of seeing all

xxvii        BUTLER'S LITERARY POSITION                             85
their enemies in that place and then write their adventures in 1889
poetry—well, to speak the truth, I have no sympathy with this Aet. 53
sort of thing. . . .
    Do you know how many copies of Ex Voto I have sold ? I
have sold 117. I mention this that you may see how cheaply
people think of me in England. With one exception there is no
journal of importance that would take an article by me. Every
book that I write falls dead before it is so much as born—every
book that I write costs me about ^100 sterling ; this is pure loss ;
and over Ex Voto I shall lose at least ,£150. I have not the ear of
any publisher ; I never invite a critic to dinner ; I do my work as
accurately as I can ; I say what, after sufficient consideration,
appears
one          Such
     side.to me    be true and
                to writers as I useful,
                                offend and
                                        against too everything
                                            I leave            else on
                                                     many interests to •
go ahead or to be useful friends ; but every one is forced to act
according to his genius.
     One cannot read this without being reminded of
Ernest's literary position at the end of The Way of All
Flesh. The remark about his not being useful to friends
was intended as an apology to the professor for being un
able to advertise the work about Dante, but he promised
to do his best by giving it to one of the Dante Societies
or to the British Museum.
     In July he went abroad, staying at Basel on his way as
usual. Here he made the acquaintance of a Madame
BischofF, a niece of his grandfather's correspondent, Baron
Merian, who, though Ambassador from the Court of St.
Petersburg to that of Paris, was of Swiss origin. Madame
 BischofF did not remember her uncle, but was able to give
Butler some information for his Life of Dr. Butler, and
also showed him some of Baron Merian's letters. From
Basel he passed into Italy.
                        Butler to H. F. Jones.
    Volterra. 20 July 1 889—You need never come to Volterra ;
the walls may be Etruscan but they are not Cyclopean, and I
only care about Cyclopean walls. Nevertheless there is a lot
here. I don't want to write much to you for I want to put what
I have to say into what I am writing for publication and there is
no doubt about youi seeing that, so why should you see it more
than ten times ? . . . There are some excellent things in Baron
Merian's letters, but I can't understand all without a dictionary ;

        86                   MONTE OLIVETO                            xxvh
  1889 among others, "Plus le francais est aimable, moins il sent les
Act. 53 beaux arts." Don't send this about too much, but isn't it nice ?
        The Basel people have sub-blasphemed me in their new cata
        logue [about the Holbein water-colour] so I had better tear them
        to pieces in the October or November number of The Universal
        Review.
             It seems the man who made the best figures at S. Vivaldo was
        blind. Of course I don't know whether they are good or bad,
        but a blind sculptor should do for The Universal Review ; at any
        rate it will provoke people if I serve them up a blind sculptor. I
        really don't think there can have been many blind sculptors.
              The blind sculptor was known as II Cieco di Sgambassi,
        and some of his sculptures were good—done perhaps
        before the poor man lost his eyesight.
              Butler found Siena " an astounding place," but did
         not stay ; he went on to Monte Oliveto to live with the
        monks for a few days.
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
             Monte Oliveto. 3 Aug. 1889—The monks are only two,
         one black and the other white ; the Padre Abate is black, Don
         Giuseppe is white. They call me Don Samuele. I don't like
         their food, especially on Fridays, but they are very kind and
         friendly. They have a most scandalous coloured print in the
         refectory : How Jesus Christ was feasted by the angels after his
         fast in the desert. The angels are all demi-monde ballet-dancers,
         only with less clothing than ballet-dancers generally wear. They
         are in the most suggestive attitudes and attended by a swarm of
         cupids. They carry any number of silver salvers with nothing on
         them ; but one angel is actually offering Christ a bun (for I am
         sure it is nothing but a common railway-station-rcfreshment-room
         bun) and a bottle of aerated water. Christ is looking up to
         heaven with a resigned expression, as though saying he " could do
         with a kidney " ; but I suppose the angels thought that, after so
         long a fast, he must be fed with great caution.
              The cats, about 15 in number, are all half-starved and go
         about showing hunger in every gesture.
              Paolino, their servant, is a worthy, affectionate creature to
         whom they pay 10 francs a month.            He is like the man-
          milliner Gogin used to tell, us about : " I wish my ma had
          married you, Mr. Taylor." He hates the monks : they bully him
          when I am by. He hates Don Giuseppe most. He says that
          the Abate and Don Giuseppe hate one another. Of course they
         do, what would they have to do if they did not ? He pours out

 xxvn                      « LA DANSE "                           87
 his soul, what little there is of it, to me and I let him talk 1889
 because I see it relieves him. . . .                                Act. 51
     I am very glad to have spent a week here, and got to understand
the place.
      It may perhaps be doubted whether every other
visitor " got to understand the place " in this sense in so
short a time as a week.
      He went to S. Gimignano and Colic di Val d' Elsa,
hoping always to find traces of Tabachetti. From Pisa
he went to Chivasso, where he was told of a sanctuary
certainly containing work by Tabachetti, but it turned
out that his informants were thinking of Crea. He went
to Biella, Oropa, where there is a sanctuary with statues,
S. Giovanni di Andorno, and Varallo.
                        Butler to H. F. Jones.
     Varallo. 7 Sept. 1889—I got some trifles at Oropa, two
little holy-water holders, very small with black Madonnas, three
coloured black Madonnas under glass, and two bottles with all
Christ's crucifixings or crucifixion-fixings inside them, corked up,
so that you can see them and think about them, and they won't
lie about and get dusty.
      I joined him at Varallo, and we came home together,
first returning to Oropa to take photographs of some of
the statues, and staying on our way at Varese, Faido, and
Basel.
      In November 1889 The Universal Review published
"LAffaire Holbein -Rippel," by Butler.                Among the
Birmann pictures in the Museum at Basel is a water-
colour drawing representing a string of dancing peasants ;
it was stated in the catalogue to be a copy by Jerome Hess
of part of the decoration designed by Holbein for a house
in Basel, called the " Haus zum Tanz," demolished some
years ago. Whenever he passed through Basel Butler
revisited this drawing. He made a copy of it so long ago
as 1871, and during each of the years 1884-5-6 spent
two days continuing to work on his copy. At last, in
 1886, it seemed to him that the catalogue must be wrong
in supposing the picture to be a copy ; it was too free

        88                  "LA DANSE"                       XXVII
 1889 and certainly could not be by Hess—at least it was much
Act. 5+ better than other work by that artist. The authorities
        showed him a photograph of a Holbein drawing at Berlin
        which, according to the received opinion, was used by
        Holbein when he painted the house, unless he used some
        intermediate drawing ; and it was stated in the catalogue
        that Hess made the water-colour at Basel as a copy from
        the house itself. Investigation, however, showed that the
        decorations on the house had disappeared before Hess
        was born, so that part of the story was certainly wrong.
        Butler came to the conclusion that Holbein himself made
        both the drawings, and that he had made the Basel
        drawing direct from the Berlin drawing, the resemblance
        negativing the supposition of an intermediate hand and
        of a lost intermediate version ; while the modifications
        negatived the supposition that any one but Holbein
        himself could have made the two drawings.
            On this subject he had a correspondence with Sir W.
        Martin Conway, who was then Professor of Art at
        University College, Liverpool, and who included photo
        graphs of the Berlin and the Basel drawings in an
        Exhibition of the work of Holbein in the Art Club.
        Butler had the satisfaction of finding that Sir Martin
        Conway agreed with him as to the Basel drawing being
        by Holbein, though he took the Berlin drawing to be a
        copy from the house.
            Butler published a card with photographs from the
         two drawings, with his views upon the matter and his
        reasons for holding them.
            In The Universal Review for December 1889 appeared
        " A Medieval Girl School," which is a description of some
        of the chapels at Oropa, and especially of the one called
        the Dimora or Sojourn of the Madonna in the Temple.



             HAPTER XXVIII
           ¦ \'TPR POINT AND '1 •
               Of EVOLUTION
       :r 1889, at tH? !. 1,.
  •¦:•' Mavlenioifi-Mc C".1'-
 •• * iiuticr had met .'¦¦ r
            had nut her at • .
- /'.c Ubed to conit- '1,
        -¦» s'.sirr wno, !:-•¦ -
                  i:id ?><¦';.-> !i r ¦ i
    *•! Giselle Vai^-T'f'i v
      • 'I? of x-r pi.-p.Ia r
         ¦' We instrum. ••. •
           ¦^^r.ihk- Jt'.r ¦ ' • ¦
            .-;d in }¦•'.'. ¦'
           " i ;hood, «: ' • ¦
          ". «r;d had \ '.
       . took to }."•-•¦' .
         . e lessors. : " - .¦ '                \ .1 to
     ; ^:eat d-..:ii < '                        . ¦ ¦• h-r
        i- and her r •. < ¦ ¦:                 : ; ! out
            I i'.T K\ '"¦ " • -- ..                 w ! in
   • '-t forty--'* •
        -T was .;-.- •¦'¦ u '.„ 1                 .•ut we
       • m-> note ¦¦¦ - ..< it :
    ¦ • -. R..' - !¦ r; 1 isi u Ai *:     1 "
        it me a n.-i'*- .1 few w'ioi 0.1. > -:
                           •9


                  CHAPTER XXVIII
                             1890
    STUDYING COUNTERPOINT AND TAKING LEAVE
                      OF EVOLUTION
 During 1888 or 1889, at the house of Miss Bertha 1890
 Thomas, we met Mademoiselle Gabrielle Vaillant. As Aet- H
 the reader knows, Butler had met her years before at Miss
 Savage's. I also had met her at my mother's house in
 London, where she used to come to give lessons on the
 violin to my elder sister, who, however, did not proceed
far with the violin, and began to learn the zither. I
remember Mademoiselle Vaillant's scorn and anger when
she heard that one of her pupils had given up the violin
for that contemptible instrument, the zither. She was a
performer of considerable attainments and of great taste,
but seldom appeared in public because, owing to an
accident in her childhood, she was lame. She made her
living by teaching, and had a wide circle of pupils. She
very kindly undertook to give me lessons on the viola—
literally to give me lessons, for she would not allow me to
pay. We saw a great deal of her, and often went to her
house, where she and her pupils sometimes played our
music through. Her health broke down, and she died in
1899, at the age of forty-six.
     In 1889 Butler was asked to sign a petition—but we
may as well have his note about it :
                Mrs. Rossetti and "Almost"
    Mrs. W. M. Rossetti, nee Madox Brown (whom by the way
I hardly know) sent me a note a few weeks back desiring me to
                              89

       90                        "ALMOST"                            XXVIII
 1890 come and sign a memorial in order to get a pension for her sister
Act 54 (Dr. Hueffer's widow). Dr. Hueffer was musical critic for The
        Times and ought to have insured his life, but it seems he had not
       done so, and Mrs. Hueffer must therefore have a pension. I did
       not like signing. I knew nothing of Dr. Hueffer, except that he
       would have snarled at my music if he had ever taken any notice
       of it, which he assuredly did not. I shall never get any public
       money myself and am therefore naturally jealous of seeing others
       get it. The people who get pensions are invariably those who
       are most bitter and contemptuous towards myself; nevertheless
       I thought that to sign would be, as Jones expressed it, "the
       smoothest progression open to me " ; accordingly I said I would
       call and sign which, at the appointed hour, I did.
            She, of course, was on her good behaviour ; so was I, for
       there is no use in doing things by halves. We deplored the
       rapid flight of time, and Mrs. Rossetti said she felt as though her
       life had passed by and she had nothing to show for it. I said
       that was exactly how I felt myself.
            "Oh no," she exclaimed immediately, "you have really almost
       something to show for your life."
            I had hard work to prevent laughing, but turned it off, and I
       don't think she noticed it
             Dr. Hueffer being dead, Mr. J. A. Fuller Maitland
       followed him as musical critic for The Times, and one
       afternoon, early in the year, when I went to Mademoiselle
        Vaillant's for my lesson on the viola, I found him with
       her and was introduced. They were rehearsing some
       thing they were to play together at a charity concert, and
       when they had finished he began at once talking to me
       about Narcissus, of which we had sent a copy to The
        Times. He questioned me about our musical studies,
       and, finding that, as he had suspected, neither Butler nor
       I had ever done any exercises in counterpoint, he strongly
       urged us to study under that learned musician and incom
       parable teacher, William Smith Rockstro (182 3- 1895).
       I talked the proposal over with Butler, who did not much
        like the idea of lessons, and was busy with his Life of Dr.
        Butler ; it was settled, however, that no harm could come
        of my taking a few lessons and reporting to him. I
        accordingly began a course of medieval counterpoint with
        Rockstro, and in a few weeks Butler became so much
        interested in what I told him that nothing would do but

               ROCKSTRO AND HANDEL                              91
he must have lessons also. I was a little nervous as to 1890
what this might lead to, because Rockstro was a pupil of Aet- **
Mendelssohn, whose Life he had written, and among his
fellow-pupils, besides Joachim and Otto Goldschmidt,
had been Madame Schumann. We did a great many
exercises in the ecclesiastical modes, and composed a few
academic fugues, and Butler readily forgave Rockstro's
association with Mendelssohn and Madame Schumann and
also any troublesome pedantry, because he found him to be
as devoted a lover as himself of Handel, whose Life he had
also written. There was never a lesson without frequent
references to Handel. I found among Butler's papers
this passage in an early draft of his song, " Tears of Joy "
in our oratorio Ulysses :
And on the MS., in Rockstro's writing, is this characteristic
 note about the two B's in the last bar :
      This passage is written quite correctly ; but according to the
 practice of the eighteenth century, C must be sung instead of the
 first B. This is what Handel would have insisted upon, throwing
Cuzzoni out of the window for disobedience.
       Rockstro spoke of modern music as "licentious"—
 meaning not that modern composers were dissolute fellows,

        92                         ROCKSTRO                             xxvm
 1890 but that, instead of being satisfied with the pane quotidiano
        their
        Handel
Aet. 5+ 0f
        Thetneclassical
               music
                 ruies>
                  and inBach.
                          illustration
                          licenseswith
                         varied    and of
                                       paid
                                        occasional
                                             little
                                           the   contrast
                                                    attention
                                                     licenses,
                                                            is afforded
                                                               tothey
                                                                   the wrote
                                                                          by
                                                                       rules.
             " Bach," Rockstro said, " is taking niggling, restless,
        little irritating licenses all the time for no particular
        reason ; Handel follows the rules with loving obedience
        and, when he does take a license, takes a good big one
        for a dramatic reason, and the effect is overwhelming."
             This placing of Handel above Bach completed
        Rockstro's conquest of Butler, and they became great
        friends.
             Butler told him about Freck, the shepherd at Langar,
        who, he was sure, slept with his face upwards (ante, I. p.
        40). Freck used to ask Butler if he could " prick him
        out " this or that part. To prick out a part is a relic
        of speech handed down from days when the notes were
        actually pricked, hence prick-song and counterpoint, and
        to know that Butler had actually heard the phrase as a
        survival, and not as an imitation, naturally interested
        Rockstro.
             We talked about Schubert and his studying Handel's
        oratorios, and being thereby led to recognise his own
        deficiencies in counterpoint and to determine to take a
        course of lessons from the leading authority of his time,
        and we wondered what would have been the effect on his
        music if he had lived. Rockstro, however, was more
        interested in Schubert from a rather different point of
        view.
             "Ah," he exclaimed wistfully, " what a pupil he would
        have made ! "
             Rockstro was a devout Roman Catholic, but that did
        not prevent him from occasionally indulging in what
        Butler speaks of as " the mild irreverence of the Vicar's
        daughter " {The Authoress of the Odyssey, p. 247), and he
        told us an anecdote about Jullien, the famous writer of
        dance-music. Late in life Jullien went mad, and proposed
        to set the Lord's Prayer to music. His friends endeavoured
        to dissuade him, but he was obstinate, and declared that

 xxvm        ROCKSTRO AND EREJVHON                         93
such a collaboration must be a great success ; it would 1890
bring together the names of the two greatest men the Aet- J4
world had ever seen.
     " Think of the title-page," he urged, " ' The Lord's
Prayer. Words by Jesus Christ. Music by Jullien.' "
     One day Rockstro said to me :
     " Now there is something I want to ask you. Butler
 has lent me Erewhon and I want you to tell me—what
 does he mean by the musical banks ? Does he mean the
 Church ? "
     I said he did.
       Oh,"! Isaid
     " Ah          Rockstro meditatively,
               see—yes—well                  " well—well
                               then, it's very  clever." then
     The fact that Rockstro was a devout Roman Catholic
 can hardly have been the reason why he did not see at
 once what was intended. Many other readers had the
same difficulty, and yet Butler used to say that he had
hesitated to let the chapter go as it stands, the satire
seemed so much too obvious.
     On the 15th of March 1890 Butler delivered a lecture
 at the Working Men's College, Great Ormond Street, on
 " Thought and Language." He afterwards revised it, and
delivered it again in February 1894 at the Somerville Club,
and it was published in 1904 in Essays on Life, Art, and
Science. Charles Crawley was interested in the Working
 Men's College, and I suppose it must have been through
him that Butler was asked to lecture there. He was a
barrister, who had specialised in insurance law, and he knew
both Edmund and Harry Gurney, who are mentioned
ante, I. p. 231 ; probably Butler knew him through these
brothers. Butler discovered while writing his grandfather's
life that Crawley was the son of Archdeacon Crawley who,
before his death in January 1896, in his ninety-fourth year,
was the oldest surviving pupil of Dr. Butler {Life of Dr.
Butler, I. 307). Crawley and Harry Gurney shared rooms
over the office of a large insurance company in Regent
Street. They knew Mrs. Alfred Bovill, and brought her
to Butler's lecture ; when it was over we all went to
Crawley's rooms. This was the first time I saw Mrs.
Bovill, but I have a dim recollection of having heard

        94                MRS. ALFRED BOVILL                       xxvm
  ix9o Butler mention her before this occasion ; it may have
Act* *4 been in connection with the rehearsals for a revival of
        Gluck's Orfeo at Cambridge, in May 1890, when she took
        the principal part and performed it extremely well.
             After this first meeting at the Working Men's College
        we frequently saw Mrs. Alfred Bovill, who was at this
        time having singing lessons of Rockstro. She was a
        daughter of the Rev. Charles Clarke, another of Dr. Butler's
        pupils and the author of many novels. Mrs. Bovill told
        Butler that in one of these novels, The Beauclercs Father and
        Son (Chapman & Hall, 1867) her father introduced
        reminiscences of his school-days, including a sketch of Dr.
        Buder, under the name of Dr. Armstrong. Butler quoted
        the passage in the Introduction to the Life of his grand
        father, but he made the mistake of speaking of Mr. Clarke
        as Rector of Esher ; he lived there, but was not rector. His
        daughter wrote to me 1 st January 19 13 : "He was for many
        years in Northants after leaving Oxford, and was a great
        sportsman ; then he came to Esher and took boys to read for
        the army. Many an idiot has he shoved through—and he
        a classical scholar and a real wit ! " On page 160 of The
        Authoress of the Odyssey Butler gives another quotation from
        The Beauclercs—a description of Shrewsbury under the
        name of Grammerton.
             Butler liked Mrs. Bovill's outspoken directness and
        straightforwardness ; they became great friends, and
        remained so until a cloud arose between them ; and soon
        afterwards, in 1898, she married the Hon. Richard Cecil
        Grosvenor.
             In 1 9 1 1 Mrs. Grosvenor and I resumed our friendship,
        and I ventured to tell her of a passage I found in Butler's
        Note-Books :
            I said in my novel [The Way of All Flesh] that the clergyman
        is a kind of human Sunday. Jones and I settled that my sister
        May was a kind of human Good Friday and Mrs. Bovill a human
        Easter Monday or some other Bank Holiday.
             I sent her this in a letter and said, " I hope you don't
        mind." She replied, 29th April 1912, " Mind! I should
        think not indeed. Oh, if only he had written that to me 1

 Kxvm                      VARIATIONS                                95
I am so pleased he thought of me as a Bank Holiday." 1890
And at the Erewhon dinner in 1 9 14 she made a speech, Aet- *4
and quoted the note, saying it was the greatest compliment
that had ever been paid her in words.
      In April, May, and June 1890 The Universal Review
published three articles by Butler entitled " The Deadlock
in Darwinism." The occasion for writing them was
 afforded by the publication in 1889 of Mr. Alfred Russel
Wallace's Darwinism, and they discuss the question
expressed in the title of Luck or Cunning ? The follow
 ing extracts from two letters to his old schoolfellow Mr.
S. H. Burbury, F.R.S., will show their tenour.
                  Butler to S. H. Burbury, F.R.S.
     26 fune 1890—The trouble as contended by Herbert Spencer,
Mivart, and many others is that variations, no matter how favour
able, will not accumulate, unless steady and in the same direction
for many consecutive generations.
     Variations due to kaleidoscopic rearrangement, though in
cessantly occurring and, as unquestionably, sometimes fortunate
beyond all power of design, will not accumulate, inasmuch as the
very fertility of variation, inherent in all organisms, and the infinite
number of ways, at any rate among the metazoa, in which
variations can be variable make the chances infinity to one against
the persistence of the necessary correlations.
     If there is a principle underlying variations that will keep up
a constant supply of the same correlations with but occasional
introduction of none save comparatively small modifications, we
believe that accumulation of beneficial variations is a matter of
course. If there is no such principle—and the denial of such a
principle is the very essence of Charles Darwinism—we hold that
the whole fabric of accumulated variations is visionary.
     I grant as readily as you can wish that when Charles Darwin
speaks of " fortuitous " he only means due to unknown causes, but
it is clear he-supposes these causes to be of the happy-go-lucky
order. We, on the other hand, maintain that we know the causes
with sufficient approach to certainty ; that they are capable of
achieving the result we attribute to them ; and that, so far as we
can see, there are no other forces in nature that can do the same.
    You said, the other day, you hardly thought Charles Darwin
knew the strength of his own position. I, on the other hand,
imagine he showed abundant signs that he knew its weakness.
    You say you have taken no interest in the manner in which

        96             "A CONSCIOUS PURPOSE"                          xxvm
  1890 variations occur. We say that this is precisely the point at issue,
Act. 54 for that the question of their conceivable accumulation turns on
        this. If they originate in one main way persistently, if they have
        a helm, they will steer straight ; if they are without the rudder of
        an underlying principle they will drift and the gain of one
        generation will be lost through the greater gain in some non-
        correlated direction in the next. It will be Penelope's web—ever
        doing and undoing with no progress.
             I stop here in order to keep the issues within narrower
        bounds. At the same time I venture to send you Evolution Old
        and New and Unconscious Memory, books to which I have never
        seen any reply attempted beyond mere coarse vituperation. I
        would ask you more especially to look at the opening chapters
        and the four last chapters of Evolution Old and New and the con
        cluding one of Unconscious Memory. What I rather feel is that I
        have been writing books now so long, and show such little sign
        of leaving off, that Charles Darwinians would surely put a stopper
        on me if they could. The fact that they prefer to take the line
        of knowing nothing about it has given me some confidence that
        they have not got much to say, and, I fear, may have increased
        a natural predisposition to stick, right or wrong, to my own
        opinion. Of course we all go on very much as gropers in the
        dark, but I know no safer ground to stand on than that of
        general good- faith and straightforwardness. I have so often
        found Charles Darwin neglectful of every canon I have myself
        been taught to respect that his name carries no weight with me,
        and I am not disposed to attach much importance to him or to
        his work unless in those, by no means infrequent, cases in which
        he is obviously unbiassed and gives his evidence. Then, of
        course, no one's opinion is better worth having.
             Penultimately, of course there are limits. There is degenera
        tion, on the one hand, from indolence and disuse ; on the other,
        there is exhaustion from over-exertion. But between these two
        there is a serviceable quantum of use and, provided exhaustion
        has not been seriously trenched on, I should say the greater and
        more persistent the use, the better for the organ in the offspring
        —bar disturbing causes.
             Finally, my dear Burbury, when and where did I ever say
        such, pardon me, nonsense as that there is "a conscious purpose
        running through the whole " universe ? I know nothing about
        such things and, if there is a purpose at all, it seems to me more
        like an unconscious than a conscious one; but it is all miles off
         my ground. My contention is that, though the amoeba did not
        foresee the man, yet it is mainly through the foreseeing of the very
        little that organism can alone foresee at each point in its progress
        that the results we see have been brought about. Hence, each

 xxvm       LOATHING THE HAPHAZARD                            97
 step of the road having been purposeful, the whole journey has 1890
 been purposeful, though the purpose has been growing and Aet. 5+
 varying all the time. I do not suppose that anything foresaw
 man from afar and worked towards him. It may have been so.
 But I see abundant evidence of the first kind of purpose and
 none whatever of the second.
     27 June 1890 . . . You contend that the accumulation of
 haphazard variations will account for what we see. I do not
 think it would or conceivably could. I can adduce sufficient (to
 my thinking) evidence that the variations are not haphazard and,
even though it were conceivable that Luck might do it all in the
end (which, by the way, I cannot conceive) surely Cunning will
do it more quickly and more certainly. And what difficulty
attaches to the Cunning view if memory be supposed persistent
between generations ?—within, of course, the limits to which all
memory is subject.
     As he says in one of the articles : " To state this
doctrine [the haphazard view] is to arouse instinctive
loathing ; it is my fortunate task to maintain that such
a nightmare of waste and death is as baseless as it is
repulsive."
     " The Deadlock in Darwinism " concludes with a
summary of the theory propounded in Life and Habit.
The articles constitute a kind of codicil to his four evolu
tion books and were republished in 1904 in Essays on
Life, Art, and Science. He never published anything
more about evolution but, if he had met with any serious
attempt to show wherein the theory of Life and Habit
required modification, it might have led to his writing
more. He made a note of Materials for the Study of
Variation by Professor Bateson, published in 1894, as a
book to be read, but I do not find any evidence that he
actually read it ; probably he was by then too deeply
engrossed in the Odyssey and the Life of Dr. Butler. He
could not have failed to be interested in all that was being
done and written after the re-discovery of Mendel's
work ; and that he would have been especially interested
in all that relates to mutation and discontinuous variation
will appear from this passage in God the Known and God
the Unknown (pp. 14, 15) originally written in 1879 :
    Under these circumstances organism must act in one of two
     VOL. 11                                             H

         98                            MUTATION                                xxvm
  189054 convenient
Aet.     charge
         ways;
         then make
         surroundings,
                  itwith
                      must
                       larger
                       ; orapaying
                              itcorresponding
                                 and
                                  must
                             either  change
                                     cash
                                     more
                                        putfor
                                           sweeping
                                             ofF
                                               slowly
                                                everything,
                                                 modification
                                                  change
                                                       and ascontinuously
                                                      changes. long
                                                                so far
                                                              meeting
                                                                    as possible
                                                                       the
                                                                        as withfound
                                                                                  and
                                                                                  the
                                                                           issmallest
              Both these courses are the same in principle, the difference
         being only one of scale, and the one being a miniature of the
         other, as a ripple is an Atlantic wave in little ; both have their
         advantages and disadvantages, so that most organisms will take
         one course for one set of things and the other for another. They
         will deal promptly with things which they can get at easily, and
         which lie more upon the surface ; those, however, which are
         more troublesome to reach, and lie deeper, will be handled upon
         more cataclysmic principles, being allowed longer periods of
         repose followed by short periods of greater activity. Animals
         breathe and circulate their blood by a little action many times a
         minute ; but they feed, some of them, only two or three times a
         day, and breed for the most part not more than once a year,
         their breeding season being much their busiest time. It is on the
         first principle that the modification of animal forms has proceeded
         mainly ; but it may be questioned whether what is called a sport is
         not the organic expression of discontent which has been long felt,
         but which has not been attended to, nor been met step by step by
         as much small remedial modification as was found practicable ; so
         that, when a change does come it comes by way of revolution.
         Or, again (only that it comes to much the same thing) a sport
         may be compared to one of those happy thoughts which some
         times come to us unbidden after we have been thinking for a
         long time what to do, or how to arrange our ideas, and have yet
         been unable to arrive at any conclusion.
              Butler went abroad in July, and arranged his journey
         so as to be at Fumes, where he saw a procession of the
         Passion, on the last Sunday of the month. He had heard
         of this from Mademoiselle Vaillant, who was a native of
         the North of France and had written him a long account
         of it. He next went to Dinant and Namur, to continue
         his investigations about Tabachetti, and then, via Basel
         and Goeschenen and over the Furka by Gletsch and Visp,
         to Saas Fee, where there are chapels with small wooden
         figures in them, which from what he had heard he thought
         might be by Tabachetti. He stayed some time photo
         graphing and making up his mind about the figures ; he
         also went to Vispertiminen, where there are more figures,
         " all of them very bad indeed."

 xxvin           DESMOND MACCARTHY                             99
      At Saas he made the acquaintance of Mr. and Mrs. 189°
 MacCarthy, who were staying in the hotel with their son, et' •5+
 an Eton boy. One day the father and son had been for
 an excursion and the father returned alone. The anxious
 mother, hearing that her boy had preferred speculating in
 short cuts to accompanying his father, borrowed a red
 umbrella to make herself conspicuous and went out " to
 look for Desmond." Presently she came upon Butler
 loaded up with his camera and toiling along on his way
back after a fatiguing day. He told her he had seen a
little white figure among the trees on the mountain side
and had no doubt it was her son who, he assured her,
would be all right, and he himself was loitering, intending
to be overtaken so that they might arrive at the hotel
together.
     " You see," he explained, " I know he will be late for
dinner and it may make things a little easier for him if he
does not come in alone."
     Years afterwards Mrs. MacCarthy told me that she
had been reading The Way of All Flesh, and had
remembered this incident and for the first time had
understood why Butler thought that her son would
require the presence of an elderly gentleman to protect
him from his parents if he came in late for dinner.
     " The idea," she exclaimed indignantly, " the idea of
supposing that my boy had been brought up like Ernest ! "
     Other English visitors were also at Saas. The follow
ing passage occurs in Notes from a Knapsack, by George
Wherry (Cambridge : Bowes & Bowes, 1909).
    An impression of a stranger kneeling at a shrine often occurs
to me. He was looking through the little grating of a chapel,
one of the many that mark the stations on the high footpath to
Saas Fee.
    At first I thought him to be a devoted penitent, until a
nearer view proclaimed a shabby wanderer with a camera. We
greeted one another politely enough to share the view of the
coloured wooden figures of the sleeping disciples, and almost
instantly I realised that the man was one of a thousand. He had
examined all the figures in all the chapels, and had spent many
days on the other side of the mountains, in Italy, wherever such
work could be found, and had made photographs as he travelled.

         ioo                 GEORGE WHERRY                         xxvm
  1890 He poured out a continuous flow of art appreciation and, it
Aet. 54 seemed to me, made original and striking observations. He
        presented me with a photograph of a sleeping Joseph, from a
        figure carved by an artist named Tabachetti with whose work in
        Italy he was familiar, and compared it with a sleeping effigy
        before us. He then told me the story of the artist's life, and
        concluded that the sculptor had been compelled to leave his
        country in some political crisis and on his way over the Monte
        Moro pass, had made a stay at Saas, and had carved certain of
        the figures which my stranger pointed out. He proved to be
        Samuel Butler, the author of Erewhon, who thought that
        Nausicaa wrote the Odyssey, and some time after [before] my
        interview with him brought out a book called Alps and Sanc
        tuaries, on the shrines of Italy. Among English villages he had
        walked several thousands of miles, adding to his list of things
        worth seeing in villages and farm-houses, and always finding
        new charms in the old country. Enshrined in the best tablet of
        my mind is the short time spent with Butler, who proved a most
        entertaining traveller, and with whose wanderings and ponderings
        I have the greatest sympathy. These few lines may be taken as
        a passing tribute to his memory.
             The reader may imagine with what emotion I came
        upon this description of Butler charming a stranger with
        the magic of his enthusiasm—doing what I have seen him
        do I know not how oft. They never met again, but after
        Butler's death I made Mr. Wherry's acquaintance at
        Cambridge and thanked him for this passage in his book.
             From Saas Butler crossed the Simplon and stayed at
        Domodossola to see the sanctuary there, which he found
        about on a level with that at Orta in interest, but with
        nothing so good as " The Canonization of St. Francis "
        which is at Orta. Then he went to Varallo, where I joined
        him and we stayed some time making excursions and
        reconsidering the chapels. We went next to Biella to
        have another look at Oropa which is near ; then to the
        sanctuary above Lenno on the Lake of Como and, after
        calling at Mendrisio, Faido, and Basel, returned to London.
             In November 1890 The Universal Review contained
        " Art in the Valley of Saas," which Butler wrote on his
        return, and in December " Ramblings in Cheapside," in
        which he recounts meeting people so closely resembling
        celebrated personages of past times that he always thought

xxvni            ESSAYS AND LECTURES                            101
of them as their more illustrious prototypes. In this way 1 890
he saw Francis I. of France and our own Henry VIII., Aet< J4
Raffaelle, Handel himself, Michael Angelo (" I never saw
a man dance so much in my life "), Dante, Mendelssohn
(making an offer of marriage to his cook in a fresco on
the terrace of the Albergo Grotta Crimee at Chiavenna),
Beethoven, Socrates, Horace, and others including Mary
Queen of Scots, who " wears surgical boots and is subject
to fits near the Horse Shoe in Tottenham Court Road."
He saw Michael Angelo another time and made this note :
    I saw him again later on, in another mood and in another
place, for the great dead live again in all their moods. This time
he was biting his middle finger and talking cruelly to himself.
     This was the last number of The Universal Review,
and this is a list of Butler's articles in it with the dates
when they appeared :
     Qu\s Desiderio . . . ?    .   .              July 1888
     A Sculptor and a Shrine                      November 1888
     The Aunt, the Nieces, and the Dog            May 1889
     L'Affaire Holbein-Rippel                     November 1889
     A Medieval Girl School .                     December 1889
     The Deadlock in Darwinism, I.                April 1890
     The Deadlock in Darwinism, II.               May 1890
     The Deadlock in Darwinism, III.              June 1890
     Art in the Valley of Saas                    November 1890
      Ramblings in Cheapside .                    December 1890
     In republishing these articles in 1 904 in Essays on Life,
Art, and Science, and in 19 13 in The Humour of Homer and
other Essays, such parts of " A Sculptor and a Shrine " as
referred to Tabachetti were omitted because the researches
of the Avvocato Negri had shown that they required con
siderable modification ; and " L'Affaire Holbein-Rippel "
was omitted because it wanted illustrations. On the
 other hand, two lectures are included which were not in
 The Universal Review, viz., the one mentioned earlier in
 this chapter on " Thought and Language," and another
 which he delivered at the Somerville Club on the 27th of
 February 1895, "How to make the Best of Life"—a
 subject about which he began by declaring that he knew
 nothing :

                                                                                      -•v
          102                    HEALTHY DISTRUST                                xxvm
  189055 impossibilities.
Aet.     Life
         minutes
             I isdo like
         instrument  that
                      notas playing
                             even
                             your
                              one goes
                                   Committee
                                     a violin
                                   know        solo
                                                to
                                        on.howOne
                                                hasmake
                                                    cannot
                                                     in
                                                     placed
                                                        public
                                                            make
                                                          the    my
                                                                 and
                                                             atbestthe
                                                                     ofdisposal.
                                                                        learning
                                                                         best
                                                                          the of
                                                                               twenty
                                                                                  . the
                                                                                     . .
                                                                                  such
              This Christmas Butler went with his solicitor Russell
         Cooke to Boulogne. He said afterwards that he did not
         like doing so ; " it interfered with the healthy distrust
         which ought always to exist between a man and his
         solicitor."

                      CHAPTER XXIX
             THE PROBLEM 1891   OF THE ODTSSET
                      Butler to Miss Butler.
     14 Feb. 1 89 1 —Alfred and I were in the dark-room, making ztgt
slides. I was afraid of exposing the same plate twice and said :       Aet. 55
     " Now, Alfred, we must be careful. I am afraid I shall get
confused."
     Alfred replied : " Yes, Sir, you will, but / am here "—all
said quite unconsciously.
     Yesterday he said : " Let me look, Sir ; yes, perhaps I shall
see that you have your hair cut to-morrow."
     This afternoon I am to call on the Tillbrooks, so this
morning he examined my hair and said reproachfully :
     " Oh no, Sir, you can't go ; it's all ragged, it won't do at all.
You can go to Mr. Skinner's in the Turnstile as you go to the
Museum, if you like; or, if you haven't done it then, I'll have a
cup of coffee for you at half-past two and then you can go down
to Mr. Hunt's—that's how I'll settle it. Don't forget."
     And then he looks perfectly satisfied. Of course I went to
Mr. Skinner's straight away, for I knew if I didn't I must go to
Mr. Hunt's and I might as well get it over.
                    Mr. J. D. Enys to Butler.
                                      Mesopotamia [New Zealand],
                                               May 7, 1891.
     Dear Butler—I have ridden up here from Mount Peel just
to see the old place again. Your old hut is still standing, nearly
as you left it, but the bedrooms thrown into one. It is used as
kitchen and married couple's quarters. Your old kitchen was
burnt down some years since. A new house has been built
a little nearer your old kitchen than the old hut, and about
                                 103

         io4                        MESOPOTAMIA                                       xx,x
  1891 50 feet more out towards the Rangitata. Trees close the whole
Aet. 55 place in on both sides and back, in front some fine Insignis 1
        stand near the edge and you look under them as the branches are
        cut near the ground. It must be about 27 years since I was last
        here, just as Brabazon was putting down the floor of the then
        new shed which had not been used. McMillan, the present
        owner, shears over 20,000 sheep and has 2,000 acres of freehold.
        He grows turnips and oats and cuts oaten hay enough for his
        horses. I rode today up to the old bush which has been all
        burnt except the Forest Creek end by an accidental fire, most
        unfortunately.
              The crops are grown across Jason's gully and this year have
        been good. Sheep looking well also.
              Many thanks for the autograph you have so kindly re
        membered to save for me of C. J. Blomfield.* I will call for it
        and a talk over old times in the autumn if I live to come home
         all right. I am visiting old friends before leaving and find it
         hard to part.
              [After saying that he had sold out and was coming home, he
        continues:]
              If you came out again you would see many changes—trees
        growing round all the houses on the plains, gravel-pits planted all
        over the place, and water-races running into nearly all the fields
        from Christchurch to Timaru, indeed without them, this last
        three dry years, stock would have died or had to be sent away.
              Have been a round trip of 16 days to the Chatham Islands to
        see my old friend Chudleigh who has long been settled there. I
        had as a companion the new bishop of Christchurch—such a
        pleasant man, full of fun, etc. of all kinds.
              Have written from your old home as I often think of you
        here.—Yours sincerely,                                      John D. Enys.
              We had by this time made some progress with our
        oratorio Ulysses. Butler knew he had failed as a painter and
        thought he knew why. " If," as he wrote on his picture,
        " Family Prayers," " If I had gone on doing things out
        of my own head, instead of making studies, I should have
        been all right." He might fail also in music, but it
        should not be for the same reason. Writing exercises
        for Rockstro in medieval counterpoint might lead to his
        becoming an expert writer of exercises, which would have
            1 Professor G. S. Sale told me that the I'inus Insignia was introduced into the
        colony from America after Butler's time, and Mr. J. D. Enys told me that those at
        Mesopotamia were planted by Mr. Campbell.
            2 He was Bishop of London and Butler saved the autograph from among Dr.
        Butler's papers.

xxrx          THE ODYSSEAN MYSTERY                             105
been useful if he had wanted to teach others to give 1891
lessons in counterpoint, but he wanted to compose music Aet- 5*
for himself and this could only be done by composing.
" Do not learn to do, but learn in doing." The doing of
the music was, however, interfered with by the Life of
Dr. Butler, which occupied him very closely. I had there
fore undertaken to make a start by selecting episodes from
the poem and arranging the order of the songs and choruses.
For this purpose, seeing that I out-Shakespeare Shakespeare
in the smallness of my Greek, I used The Adventures of
 Ulysses by Charles Lamb, a work of whose existence we
should have known nothing if Butler had not stumbled
upon Ainger's book about Lamb at "Wilderhope (ante,
p. 38). We were to collaborate in writing the words ;
it ended however in Butler's writing nearly all the
words himself, as he had done for Narcissus. As to the
music, we each chose such parts of the words as we
preferred and composed our music separately, so that we
 were able to initial each number. Butler accepted my
proposals for the general scheme of the whole but, when
 he had time, he looked again at the Odyssey in the
 original, just to make sure that Lamb had not misled me.
 He had not forgotten all his classics and found the
 original poem so delightful that he could not put it down.
     Fascinated, however, is I at once was by its amazing interest
and beauty, I had an ever-present sense of a something that was
eluding me and of a riddle which I could not read. The more I
reflected upon the words, so luminous and so transparent, the
more I felt a darkness behind them that I must pierce before I
could see the heart of the writer—and this was what I wanted ;
for art is only interesting in so far as it reveals an artist. ( The
Authoress of the Odyssey, p. 6.)
     To assist in clearing up the mystery, he set about
translating the poem into prose " with the same
benevolent leaning (say) towards Tottenham Court Road
that Messrs. Butcher and Lang have shown towards
Wardour Street." When he came to the Phaeacian
episode he felt sure that the writer was drawing from
life. The idea that he might be reading the words of a
blind bard living in the servants' hall quieted him for

        106           MISS SAVAGE AS NAUSICAA                     «ix
  1891 some time. " It was not till I got to Circe that it flashed
Aet- ss upon me that I was reading the work not of an old man
        but of a young woman."
            In July he started for his summer holiday, travelling
        via Basel as usual and staying a few days at Seelisberg on
        the Lake of Lucerne, then over the S. Gottardo to Como
        and up to Chiavenna, where I joined him. I wrote to
        him, 9th August 1891, telling him when to expect me
        and he made this note on my letter :
           It was during the few days that I was at Chiavenna (at the
        Hotel Grotta Crimee) that I hit upon the feminine authorship of
        the Odyssey. I did not find out its having been written at
        Trapani till January 1892.
            In The Note-Books of Samuel Butler (19 12) is an
        adaptation of the famous saying of Lord Shaftesbury
        about religion : " All sensible men are of the same
        opinion about women, and no sensible man ever says
        what that opinion is." These words might be spoken
        equally sincerely by one who thought well and by one
        who thought ill of women ; they state that the speaker
        had an opinion, but do not disclose which way it
        inclined. Butler must have had a high opinion of
        women or he could not have believed that the Odyssey
        was written by one of them ; nevertheless, according to
        the dictum, had he been a sensible man he would have
        taken care not to publish his opinion. Certainly the
        publishing of it did not meet with general acceptance. I
        have no doubt that in forming it he was influenced by
        his friendship with Miss Savage. Somewhere he speaks
        of the Odyssey as having been written by a prehistoric
        Jane Austen. What Jane Austen could do Miss Savage
        could have done ; but Miss Savage seems to have been
        without the desire to leave any record of herself ; at any
        rate she left none beyond what can be found in her
        correspondence.       She may be said to have posted
        her claim to a literary reputation in Butler's letter
        box.
            We went from Chiavenna to Bormio and walked to
        Bolladore. On the way we stopped at—

xxix                     DEMODOCUS                            107
                              Edolo
    Our guide, whenever he wanted to ask a question of a 1891
girl or girls, called them " bionda " or " bionde," " my fair " or Aet- SS
" my fair ones," and this he did repeatedly. He had been up all
night mowing by moonlight, beginning at eleven ; then at
nine a.m. he had started off with us, carrying our heavy loads,
and it was nearly six in the evening before we got to Edolo. He
had shoes but no stockings. We gave him twice as much as
he had bargained for and he seemed to like us. When he had
landed us at Edolo there came on a dreadful thunderstorm, but
he started to go back. Since then I have heard no more, but shall
probably get a line from him when I send him his photograph.
     It was a drizzly, chilly autumn evening at Edolo,
and, as we sat smoking after supper among the village
guests in the large room of the inn, dimly lighted by a
 few hanging oil lamps, there came in two young men of
 whom something appeared to be expected. Presently
 one of them stood up and recited the canto of Dante
 that tells about the death of Ugolino, and the other
 young man took round the hat to collect pennies. Then
 they went away out into the cold wet night, but they
 forgot the hat and had to come back for it. Butler,
 thinking of the feast given by Alcinous in the eighth
 book of the Odyssey, and seeing in this professional reciter
 a survival of the ancient bards, said to me :
      " I wonder whether Demodocus ever forgot his hat."
      We went over the Passo d' Aprica to Sondrio and so by
 Colico, Varese, Laveno, and Arona to Varallo-Sesia, where
 Mademoiselle Vaillant and her friend Miss Scott joined us.
     Signor Constantino Durio, one of the wealthy
 inhabitants of Varallo, had given a new facciata for the
 church on the Sacro Monte, and there was a festa to
 celebrate the laying of the first stone or the dedication
 of the completed work — I forget which it was. All
 sorts of people came for the ceremony, including the
 Archbishop of Vercelli, the Bishop of Novara, and the
 astronomer Padre Denza. Butler took all their photo
 graphs and had the further pleasure of showing
 Mademoiselle Vaillant and Miss Scott round the chapels.
 We also took the ladies for an excursion up to Civiasco,

        108                       SABBAGLIONE                                xxix
  1891 on the road which leads over La Colma to Pella on the
Aet- S5 Lake of Orta, and had lunch at the restaurant there kept
        by La Martina. Miss Scott was a teetotaller and knew
        no Italian, so Butler maliciously instructed the old
        landlady to make the sabbaglione so that it should be
        forte and abbondante and to say that the Marsala, with
        which it was more than flavoured, was nothing but
        vinegar. In after years, whenever we went to Civiasco,
        La Martina always reminded us of this, and laughed as
        she told us that when she looked in to see how things
        were going Butler was pretending to lick the dish clean.
                           Butler to Mrs. Alfred Bovill.
                                                        Varallo, Sept. 9, 1891.
             Dear Mrs. Bovill—It is a dangerous thing to take up a
        sheet of note-paper when one has only matter for a post-card.
        We are at Varallo, and assisted at the feast of the birth of the
        Virgin. They put us under the Bishop of Novara who was
        preaching right over my poor bald head, and got so hot that he
        rained on to me till Jones insisted that I should put up my
        umbrella or I should catch cold j it frightened the congregation
        at first, but they soon saw what it was and it was all right. The
        service lasted three mortal hours, and poor dear little Pio, who was
        sitting on the steps of the altar nursing the bishop's mitre, went
        to sleep and dropped it, so that the master of the ceremonies had
        to come and wake him, which little episode seemed to be a
        pleasant relief to every one.
             Ulysses is getting on. He is in the castle now, and Penelope
        wanted him to have his feet washed and he said he would rather
        not. He was not going to let any of those " cats " (it was not
        "cats" but "Mrs. Dogs," only that will not be fit for
        publication) wash his feet ; but Penelope insisted that washed he
        must certainly be, once that night, and then again to-morrow
        morning ; so it was settled that Euryclea was to wash him, and
        she got some cold water and poured it into a bath, then she
        added the hot till it was just right and then she began to scrub.
        By and by she found the scar, and this surprised her so much
        that she dropped the foot into the tub with a splash, and it upset
        the tub so that Euryclea had to go and fetch some more water,
        for the first lot was all spilt ; but he did get washed in the end.
             You may think this is exaggerated, but see Butcher and
         Lang, Book xix., about two-thirds through, and you will find
        every word of it. I have only three more books to do now.

 xx.x                GOD AND ALFRED                           109
    Jones leaves me on Friday and will be back in London 1891
about Tuesday or Wednesday next. 1 shall follow by the end A«- 55
of the month, say 27th. We shall be much pleased if you will
write him instructions to Barnard's Inn as to when it will be
 most convenient to you that we should call upon you. I shall
 be on the move the whole time till I come back.
     We hope you are fairly well and that Mr. Bovill is enjoying
his golf. Piu niente.—Yours very truly,             S. Butler.
     P.S.—We hope Miss Lehmann will be happy. What can
two poor incarnate bachelors say more ?
     The postscript refers to the marriage of Miss Amelia
Lehmann (a daughter of the painter, Rudolph Lehmann)
with Mr. Barry Pain. Mrs. Bovill had brought her to
tea with Buder and also with me. Here is a note about
another tea-party in Barnard's Inn to which Mrs. Bovill
brought another friend of hers :
    Mrs. Bovill and Miss Hickman were to come to tea at Jones's,
and Alfred was to take me to meet them. Through a combina
tion of accidents, I forgot ; and they expected us and we did not
come. Alfred was very much put out and, after blowing me up
sufficiently, said :
    " And now, Sir, for the future let it be an understood thing
—and Mr. Jones too—that if I am told, nothing will ever go
wrong."
    Which indeed is neither more nor less than the truth.
Why does not God have an Alfred and tell him everything ?
     Soon after the publication of Ex Voto (May 1888)
the Avvocato Cavaliere Francesco Negri, of Casale-
Monferrato, who had been making researches at Crea
and had published an article about Tabachetti in a news
paper, wrote to Butler, enclosing a copy of his article,
saying that he had seen his book, and begging him to
call the next time he came to Casale. In response to this
invitation we went there from Varallo, and Butler and the
Avvocato Negri became fast friends.             Butler went to
Casale every year afterwards, and all the members of the
Negri family looked forward to his visits with great
pleasure. There was always plenty to talk about because
the avvocato had usually been visiting some town in North
Italy where he had inspected and deciphered deeds or had
ascertained facts or verified dates relating to Tabachetti,

        no               PIETRO DE STEFANIS                     xx«
  1891 thus doing work which was possible for him as an Italian
Aet" ss lawyer but which Butler could scarcely have undertaken.
        He always, in the most generous manner, placed the
        results of his investigations at Butler's service, and was
        of the greatest assistance. He published a pamphlet en
        titled // Santuario di Crea in Monferrato (G. M. Piccone :
        Alessandria, 1902), embodying all that he had then ascer
        tained about Tabachetti.
             At Casale we used to put up at the Albergo Rosa
        Rossa, where we had been also on our first visit to the
        town in 1887. This albergo had been bought by the
        Coppo family about ten years before, and they had taken
        over with the fixtures a remarkable old waiter named
        Pietro de Stefanis, who is mentioned by Butler in Ex Voto
        (p. 33) as being known to all the country-side. Some
        years afterwards Cesare and Angelo Coppo, who had both
        been in England and spoke our language, told me a great
        deal about him. He was of a good old family, " with a
        right to have a coat of arms." His brother was the suc
        cessful proprietor of a hotel in Venice, but his prosperity
        died with him because his son was mad. " He was having
        many money in the bank and no felicity in the family.
        If his son would not became mad, would be proprietor
        also of the first hotel in Venice." Pietro was less success
        ful financially than his brother, but was spared the
        distress of having a mad son. " He was in service to
        the Duchessa di Parma, and to General La Marmora
        who did conduct the Piemontese army into the Crimean
        war and was wounded and became his meals through a
        tube, and Pietro was his waiter for some time."
             The Signora Coppo went once with her son Angelo to
        visit Pietro in his home in the native village of the De
        Stefanis family, which is Viggiona, above Cannero, on the
        Lago Maggiore. This, they told me, is the neighbour
        hood from which all the best cooks and waiters come.
        " The house was a beautiful place, the best house on the
        Lago Maggiore, 800 metres above the sea, built by
        Pietro's brother with the money from the hotel in Venice,
        and we was received like princes."
             Pietro had only one eye and never went to bed ;

xxix            A DESERVING PILGRIM                     m
there was a bedroom for him at the Rosa Rossa, but he 1891
did not use it except as a dressing-room. He worked Aet- iS
nearly all his time, only lying down at midnight on three
or four chairs in the dining-room, so as to be ready in
case he was wanted, and being up and at work again by
four in the morning. In the summer he used to put his
chairs out on the balcony over the front door and sleep
there among the pots of oleander which it was his first
duty, summer and winter, to water. He scarcely ever
took a holiday, and when he did he went home to
Viggiona to see his wife.
     Pietro and Butler were much interested in one another,
Butler because he always liked a man who was a voice and
not an echo—it did not matter who he might be or
whether he agreed with him or not ; and Pietro because
he was puzzled, and especially that Butler should return
to Casale. Englishmen are rare at the Rosa Rossa, the
customers being mostly Italian officers and commercial
travellers. At last he gave it up, and one day asked
Butler point-blank to explain himself. Butler replied :
     " Well, you see, Pietro, it's like this : A short time
ago I began to realise that in my youth I had done many
things I ought not to have done.            I consulted my
spiritual adviser who advised me to undergo some kind
of penance and recommended me not to scamp the
business. I told him I had not much time to waste over
it because there are other things I should like to attend
to before I die. He thereupon very considerately named
Crea, praising it as being less dilatory than any other
Sanctuary in the granting of absolution to deserving
pilgrims. And that is why I come to Casale."
     Perhaps Pietro had already guessed that the interest
ing Englishman was not such stuff- as pilgrims are made
of, and perhaps Butler had already pigeon-holed Pietro
and was prepared for the incredulous smile and shake of
the head with which the old waiter suspected there must
be some other reason. He then said :
     " I see it is of no use trying to deceive you, Pietro ;
so now I will tell you the honest truth. England pro
duces no wine."

         IT2            PIETRO AND PORTHOS
 1891         " Ma, che disgrazia ! " exclaimed Pietro.
iet. 55       « Jt is indeed a disgrazia ; we do what we can to
         make life endurable by importing wine from more
         favoured countries across the sea into our island ; we
         even drink it ; but good wine is a bad traveller and
         suffers so terribly from nostalgia that to change its
         habitation is to change its nature. And that is the real
         reason why I come to Casale. Here I know I shall find,
         and always in perfect condition, this divine creature—
         Grignolino. Let us drink a glass together."
             Except for the initial shock about there being no
        wine in England, Pietro found all this quite satisfactory,
        and they drank each other's health and became great
        friends henceforward.
             Pietro did not live to welcome us many times to the
         Rosa Rossa. He was like Porthos, his legs failed him
        and the doctor said he must go to bed, which he refused
        to do ; he wanted to continue working twenty hours a
        day all his life. Signora Coppo offered to let him direct
        the work of the albergo from his bed, so that the old
        man should not give up entirely ; she knew that Pietro
        in bed would be of more use than half-a-dozen ordinary
        waiters on their feet, just as his one eye was of more use
        than two are to ordinary people ; but he could not con
        template such an ending of his days. He thanked her,
        but refused her offer and went home to Viggiona.
        " When he left the Rosa Rossa he left for ever. If he
        would come back we were ready to take him even for a
        day, but would not accept—would not come."
             There were three kinds of customers whom Pietro did
        not care to see in the albergo —women, priests, and
        theatre-people. And it was an odd thing that, with his
        dislike of priests, his money went all to the church.
        " And poor Pietro is dead in want because the bad priest
        is always to take. And yet at Viggiona there were trees
        —very precious trees—oaks ; and if he would sell them
        he would be having money, and if we would be knowing
        his want we would be sending money ; but Pietro would
        not be telling." The officers and commercial travellers,
        not knowing his want but out of their regard for him,

             THE AVVOCATO'S TABLE                      113
got up a subscription, but he refused to receive anything, 1891
and the money had to be given to a hospital.                  5
    It required a little management to steer through the
hospitality that was always shown us at Casale ; for not
only did the Coppo family place the whole albergo at our
service, but the Negri family expected us to use their
house as our home. The avvocato's dining-table formerly
stood in the house of his father at Ramezzana, and
Vittorio Emanuele often came there when he was hunting.
The avvocato remembered how Vittorio Emanuele used
to take him up in his arms and kiss him, the avvocato
being then a child ; he also remembered how strongly the
great man smelt of garlic, which was because he was in
the habit of eating la soma, that is, bread on which he
had rubbed garlic. Cavour also came to the house and
the Principe dal Pozzo della Cisterna, whose daughter
married the Duca d' Aosta (son of Vittorio Emanuele)
and became Queen of Spain. She played duets on the
piano with the avvocato's wife. The Principessa dal
Pozzo della Cisterna was the niece of Cardinal di Merode
who was Ministero delle Arme di Pio Nono. These
distinguished personages had all been to the house of the
avvocato's father, and all had dined at the table at which
we dined in Casale.
    The Principe della Cisterna told them at dinner one
day that, happening to be in a caffe reading a newspaper,
he came upon an account of his own death ; it appeared
that he had been hanged for some political offence. He
doubted the accuracy of the report but, nevertheless, was
somewhat alarmed ; however he tested it by swallowing
a piece of bread, and was pleased to discover that they
must have hanged some one else.
    The avvocato's father was a great hunter ; he used to
stay out two or three weeks hunting, and in this way he
met with his death, for it was while out hunting that he
was bitten by a mosquito and died in two days.
    When we lunched or dined with them there was
usually some one to meet us who was interested in what
ever Butler was doing at the time ; it might be Don
Minina, the priest, or Professore Gilardini, a musician
    vol. 11                                          1

        il4            " ECCO L' ITALIANINA ! "                XXIX
 1891 from Turin, or perhaps Giorcelli, the good old family
Let" 55 doctor. I remember one evening when there was no
        one besides the family and ourselves ; after dinner the
        Signora Negri brought out and showed us a white silk
        handkerchief with the Magna Charta of the Italian Con
        stitution of 1848 printed on it and signed by Carlo
        Alberto. She was a child in those turbulent days,
        daughter of the Avvocato Giuseppe Ravizza, one of the
        leading citizens of Novara ; they dressed her in the
        tricolor to symbolise the hopes of Italy, and when the
        King entered the town she was the first to welcome him.
        In acknowledgement he lifted her up in his arms and
        kissed her, saying :
             " Ecco 1' Italianina ! "
             The handkerchief has been preserved ever since,
        together with a letter of thanks, among her most sacred
        treasures. She also preserves the little golden dagger
        which she wore in her hair as part of her wedding dress—
        a survival of an old custom. There is an equestrian
        statue of Carlo Alberto in the piazza at Casale ; he is
        holding out his hand, whereby the sculptor intended an
        allusion to his granting the Constitution, but the people
        say he is doing it to feel whether it is raining or not,
        and that he is saying : " Oggi non piove," or as the case
        may be.
             We owe to the Avvocato Giuseppe Ravizza the
        invention of the typewriter, though, as often happens in
        these cases, he did not reap the rewards he was entitled
        to. He did however receive a gold medal in 1856 for
        his " Cembalo Scrivano " shown in the Exhibition at
        Novara; and at Turin in 1858 he received, at the
        Esposizione Nazionale di Prodotti d' Industria, a bronze
        medal " per concepimento ingegnoso di macchinetta a
        tasti per iscrivere."
             Butler and I parted at Casale : I going to Nice to see
        my mother, and he to the Certosa di Pesio and Mondovl,
        thence to Turin and back to Varallo ; after which he
        called at Faido and then went home.
             On the 6th October Alfred saw him off on a visit to
        Shrewsbury.

                  "RICHLY CAPRON1SED"                             115
                           Alfred to Butler.
                                             15 Clifford's Inn, E.C
                                                  7 October 1891.
     Dear Sir—I hope you arrived quite safe on Tuesday and 189
found your sister well. It rained all day and night on Tuesday Aet.
so I could do no printing. Today is better and have been able
to print a few. I have a little complaint to make. You never
looked out of the carriage to see me standing on the platform as I
always do. There was I, standing in the rain, and you never
looked at me. . . . Yours truly,                            Alfred.
     [On receipt of this I went to the telegraph office at once and
wired an apology. I do not believe I have ever so offended
since. As a postscript to a note enclosing letters that had come
for me he wrote, Oct. 8 : " Received telegram this morning
thank you. I shewed it to Mr. Jones and he laughed. I forgive
you. Alfred." S. B.—7 March 1902.]
      Alfred went to the opera this winter to see La Basoche
and Butler made a note about it :
                       Alfred at the Opera
     " Oh it was lovely, Sir. And in one scene they brought on a
horse richly capronised you know, Sir."
     I said, "Alfred, spell that word," and made a beginning for
him.
     " Oh yes," he answered, " I know—comparisoned."
     " Come, come, Alfred, you know better than that."
     "Well, Sir, it will be six years before I want to use that
word again, and won't it do if I study it then ? "
     To which I not altogether unwillingly yielded, for Alfred's
education takes time and, what is more, he is so very good as he
is that it is better to leave him alone.
                        Alfred at the Play
     The Noble Vagabond was too homely a piece to please him ;
and he was afraid Faust, at the Lyceum, for which he had had a
ticket given him, would be "a kind of a-draggin' " on him. He
went, however, to this last piece and was delighted with it. He
said it required a great deal of credulity before one could accept
it all as true, but he had never seen such scenery anywhere.
      Professor Marcus Hartog wrote to Butler, 5 th
November 1 89 1, about a paper he had read at Cardiff.

       u6                    WEISMANNISM                            XXIX
1891 Francis Darwin was in the chair, and they had some
^ 55 conversation afterwards, in the course of which F. Darwin
       " spoke very nicely of his intercourse with " Buder in
       London. " In his (F. Darwin's) own paper, ' On the
      Artificial Production of Rhythm in Plants,' he went very
      far towards ascribing memory to them."
                          Butler to Marcus Hartog.
          6 Nov. 1 89 1 —I have observed that Weismannism has been
      very quiet during the last 18 months except for an occasional
      attack upon it. Romanes promised us a second article on him
      about 18 months ago, but it has never come off. I am convinced
      the inner circle of Darwinians see that the rout of Weismannism
      is general. They are in a mess ; they threw Charles Darwin
      very much over when they tried to make a trump card of
      Weismann, and one does not exactly see how they are to get
      back to where they were, for they were driven into Weismann
      much as sailors are driven to port in a storm, and, if he will not
     shelter them, there is nothing but their skill in hoodwinking the
     public which can save them from disaster. Fortunately for them
      the public has developed such hereditary aptitude for being
     cheated, and they have themselves developed such not less
     hereditary aptitude for gulling the public that, thanks to uni
     versities and academies, they will probably find enough supporters
     to last their time, after which the deluge will not much
     matter.
          As for Frank Darwin — he is a Cambridge professor and
     knows better than to go about breathing fire and smoke against
     me. No more, I trust, do I against him. Still the opinion I
     have formed of him is based on data which compel me to one
     inference only and, that inference being accepted, I prefer to
     think and speak of him as little as I can. I had seen a summary
     of his paper and noted it as very interesting. I am too busy on
     other matters to meddle with biology just now beyond, of course,
     noting and indexing anything that I think I may presently want
     whenever I come across it. By and by the Heringian theory
     will have to be threshed out and then we shall see what happens ;
     till then I am writing Ulysses, translating the Odyssey (done
     now), doing my grandfather's Life, and attending to the
     Italian edition of Ex Voto, photographic snap-shots, etc. I shall
     make no more [meaning he will not meddle further with
     biology] till I see what I consider a good chance. I have heaps
     and heaps to interest me meanwhile. Of course if I get what I
     consider a fairly promising opening I shall take it.

  XXIX            MRS. ALFRED BOVILL                          117
       In December, at the school concert at Shrewsbury, 1891
 Butler's song, " Man in Vain," which he had written for Aet. 5
  Ulysses, was performed by the boys, and we went down
 to hear it.
       I have given one letter dated Varallo, 9th September
  1 891, from Butler to Mrs. Alfred Bovill, and shall give
 several more.       In 19 12, after her second marriage
 (ante, p. 94), she very kindly wrote for me a paper of
 Reminiscences ; it relates in part to a few years later than
  1 89 1, but I place it here because dates are not insisted
 upon, and it gives a delightful picture of Butler as he was
 at about this time of his life.
      Reminiscences of my Friend, Mr. Samuel Butler
                                 BY
              The Hon. Mrs. Richard Cecil Grosvenor
      Being a woman and never having been to school I cannot
remember in what year I first met Mr. Butler, but whatever
year it was it proved to be a blessed one for me.
     When I was about 17 or 18 some kind friend mentioned
Erewhon to me and, after reading that book, I longed to meet
the author.
     Many years later Charles Crawley, a very intimate friend of
                                         London, mentioned that
he had to be at the Working Men's College, Great Ormond
Street, on a certain day as Butler was to lecture there at his
(Charles Crawley's) request. I asked, " Who is Butler ? " and
the reply being, " Samuel Butler who wrote Erewhon" I begged
to be allowed to come.
     I am ashamed to say I forget what the lecture was about,
the fact being that I was so taken up with studying the
appearance of the lecturer. We went to Charles Crawley's
rooms afterwards and I had the great joy of being introduced to
Mr. Butler on that evening.
     Of course I knew I wanted to know him intimately, but the
delightful thing for me to remember is that he actually seemed
to be quite ready to accept me at Charles Crawley's valuation,
and from that day we began a friendship that lasted some years.
     I am not certain whether it was on that night that I first
met Mr. Festing Jones, but at any rate if not then it was very
soon after, and I am glad to say he and I are at this date very

        u8                   A TEA-PARTY                                 xxix
  1891 firm friends. No one could have known Mr. Butler intimately
Aet. 55 without knowing Mr. Jones and Alfred.
            Very soon after Mr. Butler's first visit to my house he
        invited me to bring my two children, Carlos and Merric Bovill,
        to tea at 15 Clifford's Inn ; we went and it was one of many
        such delightful tea-parties and I, as well as the boys, felt like a
        child going out to tea with a " grown-up "—one in a thousand—
        for he never talked as if he was coming down to one's level,
        indeed he had the great gift of making one bring out some
        good things occasionally ; I was never quite sure they were not
        things he had himself said, dressed up in one's own somewhat
        meagre clothing, but, if so, he never reminded one of that fact.
             His rooms and the stairway to them dated from before the
        great fire of London, I believe ; at any rate if they did not I
        know I shall always think they did. The balustrade was lovely ;
        the whole of one's hand rested upon it, it was much too wide to
        be clasped. Then the double doors opened and there he stood
        on the threshold beaming ; beaming is what I mean and I will
        not alter that word ; his glasses were very thick but they could
        not hide either the bright blue colour of his eyes or the delicious
        twinkle in them when he gave forth some rather more naughty
        and humorous speech than usual. Alfred was always there and
        Mr. Jones sometimes—generally I think. Then there was the
        room itself and all his treasures and his dear little piano on which
        I used to play, and I was always to sing " something that Alfred
        will like and understand, please." The tea was lovely and we
        all ate too much always and were all the better for it. The
        floor of the room was not level, and even that was a delight and
        is a delight now.
             Mr. Butler used to go for walks in the country, often
        returning by train to Portland Road Station, and as my house
        had a door in Albany Street, close to the station, I was lucky
        enough to see him pretty often on his way home. His talk was
        always charming and full of fun, and he encouraged one to say
        anything that came into one's head and to be natural ; for one
        soon found out that if there was one thing beyond all others he
        could not stand it was pretence of any sort.
             It is my pride and joy to remember that as he translated the
         Odyssey he brought me his MS. and let me read it ; and, of
        course, if it had been the dullest of books I should have read it
        and been happy, but as it was practically new to me (for I only
         knew the names and bits of the stories here and there) you can
        imagine how I lived upon it and was impatient for the next
         batch of Books to come. Such a beautiful handwriting too, and
        scarcely an erasure !
             Then he would make me tell him what I thought of the

                  "MY BLOODY TICKET"                            119
different characters, and once, when I said I thought Penelope 1891
was rather a flirt, he was so pleased that he went off at a tangent, Aet. 55
said he quite thought she might have got rid of those suitors if
she had sent them on messages, with patterns of wools for her
work, told them they had not matched the colours well and must
take them back, and when they brought them right at last, forgot
to pay them, etc. [The Authoress of the Odyssey, p. 130.] All
this and a great deal more we used to talk about.
     On one occasion I persuaded him to give a lecture at my
house on " The Whitewashing of Penelope ' as he called it, and
I asked a favoured few to come and listen and very pleased they
were. Amongst the guests were Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Fuller
Maitland ; she was particularly delighted and afterwards sent
a card to Mr. Butler for one of her musical evenings. He, of
course, consulted me as to whether he should go. I think he
had made up his mind to do so, although it was for 10 p.m. and
he said : " But there's my bally old body to be considered."
Finally he said he would go if I would promise to be there by
10 punctually. We both arrived at that hour, and I was very
proud to walk into the room with him. He wore a shirt with
a little frill down the front which looked old-worldish and delight
fully like what he ought to wear. Several of my acquaintance
asked me : " Who is that charming old gentleman ? " and those
I introduced to him felt that, after all, I was not quite such
a Bohemian as they had thought.
     At 11.30 he asked me, "May I go now?" and "Must I
say good-bye ? " I said, " Yes " and " No " and he beamed and
twinkled and began to feel in his pockets. As he did so his face
became first serious then sad and long, and, when all the pockets
had been searched, he bent towards me and said :
     " And now I've lost my bloody ticket."
     I did so wish some of the quite Nice people who were there
could have heard him.
     Whenever I left home for any length of time he used to
write to me—such delightful letters. They are full of good
things, and the best of all is the really big friendliness and kind
ness running through every one of them. His kindness to me
was continuous and always so intensely thoughtful. He lent me
Alfred to make a catalogue of my books ; it was never finished,
but I have the book still in which it was begun. Nearly all my
books by Mr. Butler are gifts from him.
     I had letters and post-cards from him if he was abroad ; no
matter how busy he was he never seemed to forget that it would
give me pleasure to hear of some striking paragraph in the
Odyssey or Iliad, or of some of the people in or near Trapani.
     He was not the sort of person one met casually ; he never

        120                 THE NOTE-BOOKS                            XXIX
  1891 made a practice of going to parties, and therefore whenever we
Aet. 55 did meet it was a regular arrangement and was all the pleasanter
        as one could arrange not to have people there who would not
        be interesting or interested —just a few real friends. I much
        preferred it, however, if we were quite alone and I could ask him
        this, that, and the other question and always be sure of being
        told what I wanted to know, without feeling that he thought me
        an ignoramus either ; and that is saying a great deal for his
        consideration.
             The Note-Books which have recently been published are more
        valuable than all his other works to those who knew him person
        ally, for they bring him actually back to one's memory exactly
        as he was ; his very words are there and with them come, to me
        at any rate, with no effort the sound of his voice and the picture
        of him with his strong personality. There is no dressing-up for
        effective presentation to the public ; the simplicity of the book
        is its strength. The Biographical Statement is all one needs to
        remind one of the work done and the dates thereof ; and the
        restraint shewn by the editor in thus letting the Notes speak for
        themselves is rare in work of this description and demands the
        gratitude of all those who, like myself, are fortunate enough to
        have met Samuel Butler, and also to be able to think and speak
        of him as "friend."                          Jessie Grosvenor.
             December, 1912.
              I pointed out to Mrs. Grosvenor that I was scarcely
        the proper person to give currency to the last paragraph
         of her Reminiscences, but she thought me fastidious and
         was so anxious to say that reading the Notes brought him
         back more vividly than anything else that, after considera
        tion, I determined to reproduce her MS. without asking
        her to alter the end of it. I was the mere willing to do
         this because several friends who remembered him have
        expressed themselves to the same effect, notably his cousin,
         Reginald Worsley, and Gogin.

                         CHAPTER       1892       XXX
                                     SICILY
Some time previous to 1892 I had made the acquaintance 189*
of Mrs. Beavington Atkinson who had met Butler years Aet" j6
before. She lived in Kensington, and a few friends,
including myself, used to meet at her house every week
to try over madrigals and part-songs. On 27th January
we sang through the whole of Narcissus with pianoforte
accompaniment. Butler, of course, came and jwas much
pleased to hear that, with a few more rehearsals, his
music would sound as he had intended.
    Meanwhile he was continuing his translation of the
Odyssey which was " finished," as he wrote to Hartog,
only in the sense that he had covered the canvas,—it all
wanted revision. Early in January 1892, in the course
of this revision, he came to Neptune's turning the
Phaeacian ship into a rock at the entrance of the harbour
of Scheria, and felt sure that, if an actual place was being
described anywhere in the poem, this was the passage
or one of the passages. He made a list of the various
natural features of Scheria, as detailed in the poem, and
set about looking on the map for some spot that should
satisfy all the requirements. Learning from Colonel
Mure's work1 that the locality of the episode of the
Cyclopes had been supposed to be near the Lilyboean
promontory, he went to the British Museum and searched
that neighbourhood on the Admiralty charts, whereon he
found that Trapani and Mount Eryx supplied everything
      1 Language and Literature of Ancient Greece (London : Longmana, 1850).
                                         121

      122              LOCALISING SCHEMA                            xxx
189* he was in search of. He then wrote to The Athenaeum,
     3°th January 1892, a letter of which these were the
     points :
          1. The town of Scheria must not be on a river, or
     Nausicaa need not go so far afield for a washing-ground.
     2. The river when reached must not be a large one.
     3. Between the town and the washing-ground there must
     be a stretch of low land with a road on it, running parallel
     to the coast, for both town and washing-ground are on
     the seashore. 4. The town must have what may pass for
     a harbour on either side of it. 5. There must be a low,
     but formidable, rock quite near the shore, and not much
     above water, for Neptune turns to stone the ship that had
     escorted Ulysses and presses it down into the water just
     as it was coming full sail into port. 6. There ought also
     to be a notable mountain not far from the town, to give
     point to Neptune's threat that he would bury the city
     under a high mountain. .
          It is indisputable that the local colour of the Phaeacian
     books is more vivid than that of the rest of the Odyssey.
     Assuming that the poem is all by a single writer, then, if
     the chief town of the Phaeacians, namely Scheria, can be
     localised as Trapani—
         It is from this place that the Odyssey must be supposed to
     have come, and it will be no strained hypothesis to hold that
     actual people may appear as well as an actual place. Whether the
     writer of the Odyssey may appear among these, and if so which
     character is most suggestive of the poem as a whole—these are
     points on which, though I may have formed an opinion, I do not
     venture to express it at present ; I leave them, therefore, to the
     consideration of more competent critics.
          These last words foreshadow his view that the authoress
     introduced herself into the poem under the name of
     Nausicaa.
          In the Odyssey, when King Alcinous sees that Neptune
     has turned the ship into stone, he says that the Phaeacians
     have made a mistake in giving Ulysses an escort, and that
     they must not act so inconsiderately in future. Butler
     was surprised and delighted to find, not merely that there
     was a rock in the sea such as he wanted near the shore at

xxx                    RICHARD GARNETT                                        123
Trapani, but that it was named in the chart "Lo Scoglio ig9i
di Malconsiglio." He wrote for information about it to Aet- 56
the Sindaco of Trapani, who replied that there was a legend
about Turkish pirates coming to attack the place, and
that the Madonna di Trapani had turned their ship into
this rock as it was entering the harbour—that is to say,
the pagan legend of the Odyssey had been Christianised.
      On the 30th January, the day that his letter appeared
in The Jihenaeum, he gave a lecture at the Working Men's
College in Great Ormond Street on "The Humour of
Homer." Dr. Garnett was there and also Miss Jane
Harrison, the Greek scholar, both very much offended
and scandalised, especially Miss Harrison—at least that is
what Butler thought ; but the audience generally were
laughing heartily all the time.
          My Lecture on "The Humour of Homer"
     This came off on Saturday night at the Working Men's
College and I should say went very well. The room was full
and Garnett tells me that several had to stand, but I was too
much occupied with the lecture to see.
      I called on Garnett this morning, and it seemed to me that
he had been a good deal frightened and shocked. I could not get
a word out of him but the merest common form remarks ; the
most definite thing he said was that my suggestion about Mrs.
Homer had a great many potentialities. As for my letter in
Friday's Athenaeum about Trapani, he said it was a very ingenious,
plausible suggestion, but that he did not know enough about the
subject to be able to form an opinion. Garnett is an excellent
don-ometer and what he said shows me what dons at Oxford and
Cambridge will say generally—which was what I wanted to be
sure about.
     The wonder is that one so cautious and academic as he is
should be, as he not less certainly is, one of the most brilliantly
humorous and in all respects fascinating writers of the time, if
not the very best we have, for I know not who can be placed
above him.1
      I told Fortescue, laughingly, of Garnett's attitude, and he
smiled and said :
      "Garnett hates anything downright and outspoken. There
    1 Butler was thinking of The Twilight of the Gods, a book of stories by Garnett,
published in 1888.

         i24                LOCALISING ITHACA                               xxx
  1892 came here once [to the British Museum Reading Room] a
Aet. 56 Siamese prince, a very intelligent fellow, who, among other
         things, was president of the library and educational department in
        Siam. Garnett and I went round with him and showed him
        among other things the way in which the place was heated :
             " ' And how does it work ? ' aslced the prince.
             " ' Damnably,' I replied, and I could see Garnett writhed with
        agony. He shuddered and gasped for breath."
              On 20th February a further letter from Butler
        appeared in The Athenaeum showing that the description
        in the Odyssey of Ithaca does not at all agree with the
        real Ithaca, which is one of the Ionian islands and lies off
        Greece, but does agree perfectly with Marettimo, which
        is one of the Aegadean islands and lies off Trapani. He
        also gave further reasons for thinking that Scheria is drawn
        from Trapani and that Ithaca, when it is being described
        from within, and not as an island lying away in the sea, is
        also drawn from Trapani and its neighbourhood.
             Mrs. Bovill had been taking lessons from Rockstro but
        gave them up for a time when she went to Australia for her
        health. I do not remember whether it was on this or on
        some other occasion when she was unwell that Rockstro
        offered prayers and burnt a candle for her in his church.
       She wrote to Butler from Australia complaining of the
       colonialness of the place and he replied :
                                Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
                                                                 7 Feb. 1892.
            Poor Mrs. Bovill !—Jones said, " Poor thing ! " when I read
       him your letter, and I was half tempted so to begin my letter,
       only I did not venture. I know all about it. I was 4^ years
       in New Zealand, but they were better then, for the place was
       only 9 years old and they had not yet got any money j but the
        newness and rawness of the place were very depressing. Then I
        was a year and a half in Canada, mainly Montreal. I think
       you know the little " Psalm " which was the outcome of that
       sojourn. It is at the end of my Selection book. When they
       have nicer things to eat they will be nicer people, and when they
       are nicer people they will have nicer things to eat ; but so long
       as their food is what it is the Lord will harden their hearts and
        they will not bring forth the fruits of good living. What a
       vicious circle it all is ! For good living is both the fruit that is
        to be borne and the thing that is to bear the fruit, is it not i

 xxx             ALFRED AND THE MOON                             125
      My Alfred watched your ship all the way out, and duly 1892
 informed me of every place at which she touched. The moment Aet- S6
 he heard you were in the Paramatta, he began to watch that.
 It was very good of him, for it was all done out of his own
 head.
     We have had Venus and Jupiter very bright and very close.
 One evening they shone clear and near the moon, no other stars
 being visible. Alfred did not like it, so he said :
     " Do you think, Sir, that that is quite right ? "
     I said I thought it was ; but next night the moon was a
 long way off, so he complained to me and said it was not right.
     I said : " But you know, Alfred, the moon rises an hour
 later every night, so it will be an hour yet before it is in the
same place."
     " Very well, Sir," he answered, finding my explanation a
little tedious, " I forgive you this once, but never allude to the
subject again in my presence."
     Isn't it refreshing to have people like that about one ?
     My lecture came off last Saturday week, and Jones and I
thought it was a good deal liked. I do not see how it could
possibly have gone better. I have found the place where
Nausicaa lived. She drew it all from life, and I had a long
letter, with map, about it in last week's Athenaeum.             No
contradiction as yet. I have offered my translation to publisher
after publisher, and no one will take it though I have offered to
give it to them. It must wait. Griffith, Farran & Co. were
no good—a long story—so I went and was as rude as I could
be—very rude—and deliberately so. ... I did not go to them.
They wrote to me and asked to see the MS. I took it. They
kept it a fortnight, so I called for an answer. They asked for a
few more days—kept it another fortnight—I called again, and
found Welsh had gone to America. So I flew at their manager
and morally pulled the establishment about their ears. A week
was ample time, considering that they had asked to see it and I
had told them I wanted it.
     Mrs. Beavington Atkinson did Narcissus the week before
last, from end to end, songs, choruses (8 voices), and all ; it took
just 2 hours including the interval between the parts, and we
thought everyone liked it and laughed very heartily. She will
do it again. Please get well enough to come and hear it. I
have done the Sirens music for Ulysses, but am at a stone wall
with the recitative that follows. The isle is to dissolve in flames
of fire, and I cannot do the fire.
     Alfred shall get you some cream and a nice piece of cake
from Buszard's as soon as ever you come back. You will have
lots of letters to read and this is too long already, so with kind

         126              ROCKSTRO'S ACCIDENT                         xxx
  1892 regards and great hope that you may be soon here again and
Aet. 56 in g0gei health and spirits,—Believe me, yours very truly,
                                                             S. Butler.
             Butler, of course, told Rockstro all about his
         Odyssey theories, and Rockstro was tempted to get up
        his Greek again so that he might understand them
        better. During the time we knew him, but I forget
        precisely when, he fell from the top of an omnibus near
        South Kensington Station. Otto Goldschmidt, who, as
        has been already mentioned, had been a fellow-pupil with
        him under Hauptmann and Mendelssohn, came to see
        him in the hospital, and Rockstro told Goldschmidt all
        about the accident. Goldschmidt would not believe him
        and said :
             " You don't mean to tell me you fell off from the top
        of the bus down to the ground ? "
             " Yes, I do," said Rockstro, " right off from the top
        down to the ground, and they took me into the pastry
        cook's before bringing me here."
             Next day Goldschmidt went to see Rockstro again
        and said :
             " I find you are quite right. I have been to the
        pastrycook's and you actually did fall from the top of
        the bus to the road."
             Butler was amused when he heard this, and made the
        wicked comment that as Otto Goldschmidt had known
        Rockstro nearly all his life he ought to have been able to
        form a correct idea of his truthfulness without calling at
        the pastrycook's for confirmation.
             Rockstro never completely recovered from this
        accident, and when he had influenza or caught cold,
        which he frequently did, he suffered in the bruised
        limbs. In March 1892 he was laid up, and wrote to
        Butler that he had been using his time in brushing up his
        Greek :
                             W. S. Rockstro to Butler.
            March 1892—I find I have not only forgotten my verbs but
        my men and places also, and I have wished I had a key to Homer

XXX                   ROCKSTRO'S CANONS                                      127
like that which some benevolent Frenchman has written to de 1892
Balzac ; a key which would explain who was who and where Aet. 5*
was where in both poems. When I was a boy I determined a
thousand times over that I would make myself such a key, and
the desire has come over me again. Only I cannot now afford
to give my time to it wholly for love. Do you think any
enterprising publisher would join me in the speculation ? I am
afraid to broach the subject to Macmillan or any of the
confraternity, lest anyone else should think the idea good and
anticipate me — for I suppose one cannot register a literary
invention like a mechanical one. But I certainly should like to
concoct such a key to Homer in a systematic form, and the
labour would be to so great an extent mechanical that it would
not need the learning of a tremendous scholar to carry it out.
What say you to the idea ? . . .
     Also while actually confined to bed I made a canon, capable
of heaps of solutions, some bad, some good, and a few really
good. I send it to you on the opposite page in case you or
Jones might like to have a shy at it.
      About this time Rockstro gave me another canon
which he had been composing. I reproduce them both
here ; the first is the one he sent to Butler, the second
is the one he gave to me.
                                   Canon I.
     Modos VII.                                     W. S. Rocxstbo, March 1891.
                                                                            ¦B-
   - net gen - tes: lau-da-te E-um om - - - nes po - pu - li.
                                   Canon II.
                                                                      w. s. R.
                                                        om-nes po - pu - h.

         128             DEATH OF MADAME                           xxx
  189*       Canons were not much in Butler's line, but I had a
Aet* S6 shy at them. I did not, however, get anything like the
         82 solutions of which Rockstro said one of them was
        capable. I think it was 82, but that was if one kept
        stricdy to the rules ; by using licenses it was something
        like 1 50, if I remember right.
             In March 1892 Buder had the misfortune to lose a
        friend whom he always called " Madame." Her name
        was Lucie Dumas, but some years before her death she
        exchanged the Dumas, which was her father's name, for
        Dewattines, which was her mother's maiden name.
        Butler made her acquaintance somewhere near the Angel
        at Islington about 1872, when she was twenty-one. She
        came of respectable parents, engaged in the silk trade at
        Lyons. She had been in Paris and had a son whose
        father, on marrying, undertook to provide for him and
        made Madame an allowance on condition that she lived
        out of France. He did this with the acquiescence of his
        wife, and Madame spoke well of their behaviour to her.
        I have no doubt she deserved to be well treated by them,
        for she was an admirable woman, absolutely trustworthy,
        with considerable knowledge of the world, great natural
        intelligence, and what her brother, who was with her
        during the last years of her life, called " un coeur d'or."
             Madame had had predecessors, but during the twenty
        years of her intimacy with Butler she had no rivals.
        After he had known her some fifteen years he disclosed
        his name and address, and she occasionally came to tea in
        his rooms ; none of the predecessors had known how to
        retain his friendship as she retained it.
             Madame spoke English, but never completely mastered
        the intricacies of our language, and she and Butler con
        versed in French. One evening he said to me :
             " Oh, what do you think Madame told me this after
        noon? She says she has a friend—let me see if I can
        remember her words—' Une amie qui va 6pouser en
        secondes noces un officier de la Sale-Vache Armee.' "
            And we wondered whether to admire more the reckless
        clutching at the Salvation Army or the discreet admission
        of one previous marriage.

 XXX                  MADAME'S CAT                       129
      Madame, as a good Catholic, observed the festivals 1892
 and fasts of the Roman Church ; not only so, she tried Aet. 5
 to induce those about her to observe them also—especially
 the fasts. I forget whether she ever made Butler actually
 promise to abstain from meat on Good Friday, but I
 remember his telling me how shocked she was when he
 confessed to her, one year, that he had sinned in this
 respect, and how she blew him up and begged him to
 reform. He was " civil but quite inexorable," as he was
 when refusing to help to get the Jews back to Palestine
 (ante, I. p. 383).
      She was more successful with Marquis, her cat ; but
then she had the ordering of his daily menu. When she
boasted to Butler of her intentions he thought she was
construing the injunctions of her spiritual adviser some
what widely, and remonstrated, pointing out that Marquis
could not seriously claim any share in the sacred mystery
of the Redemption. It was of no use. She brushed his
sophistries aside. Marquis must conform. And that is
how matters stood when Butler went for his Easter outing.
      On his return Madame welcomed him — had he
enjoyed himself? had he made many sketches? evidently
the weather had been fine, he was so sunburnt. And
all the time Marquis, with his tail in the air, was per
forming greetings after his kind, purring loud, caressing
Butler's ankles, and describing figures of eight in and out
between his feet. Then Butler sat down in front of the
fire and began to unlace his boots, an operation which
always fascinated Marquis ; he forgot he was grown up,
and sported with the flickering tags like the kitten he
still was at heart. Butler himself became fascinated as
he watched his lithe movements. He always associated
grace and contentment with good health, and it came into
his mind that whatever Marquis had had for dinner on
Good Friday it had not disagreed with him. Perhaps
Madame had relented ?
     " Non, non ; pas du tout. Au contraire, j'ai dit au
marchand de meat de ne rien apporter ce jour-la—inutile
de passer."
     " Alors, il n'a pas mange, ce pauvre Marquis ? "
     VOL. II                                          K.

          130                  "IL EST POETE"                          XXX
  189256 aj Jonn^
Aet.                  mang£
               " Pas un       ! maisbun."
                         not cross     si, mon ami, il a mange.     Je lui
               Madame was continually changing her lodgings, which
         were at first in Islington and later on in Bloomsbury.
         Towards the end of her life she was living in Handel
         Street, near the Foundling Hospital ; the circumstance
         amused Butler and gave a new significance to the epithet
         " Handelian." She was taken from Handel Street to the
         French Hospital, where she died of consumption. Butler
         saw that she was suitably buried, and he and I, accompanied
         by her brother, followed her to Kensal Green.
               It was Madame who said of Butler, referring to his
         simplicity in some matters and his insight in others, " II
         sait tout ; il ne sait rien ; il est poete."
               Mrs. Bovill presently returned from Australia, and
         one day Butler sent Alfred to her house with a copy of
         Ex Voto for her sister, and a copy of Alps and Sanctuaries
         for herself.
                                Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
              $th April 1892—Well, your servant, not knowing what a
         very important person Alfred was, and thinking he was just a
         common young man, said you were busy ; and Alfred, being
         very meek, went away, forgetting that he had express instruc
         tions to explain everything by word of mouth, and that he ought
         to have said he would wait till you were disengaged. However,
         this note will do the thing as well. Mind you don't scold your
         servant ; and mind, please, you ask me to tell you about Alfred
         and the plates. No—I will do it now.
              I took him to see Venice at Olympia, and we saw some
         plates, 6d. each.
              Alf. " Do you know, Sir, I think you ought to have a few
         plates like that against Mrs. Bovill comes—you know it looks
         very bad, such common plates as you have."
              /. " Very well ; I will get one, but I shall only get one ;
         you know that's the way you always rush me when I take you
         out anywhere. Still, I will get one."
              Alf. " Very well, Sir, but / am to have it when she has used
         it, am I not ?
              /. " Why, what do you want it for ? "
              Alf. " To hang up, because I think it looks pretty."
              /. "Very well, Alfred, then I had better get two plates at
         once."

 xxx               A CLEVER EUPHEMISM                           131
      Alf. (after a pause) "Do you know, Sir, I think it would be 1892
 almost as well if Mrs. Bovill did not see my plate."                Aet. 56
      /. « Why so ? "
      Alf. " Because, you know, she might take a fancy to it, and,
 if she was to like it, I think the very least you could do would be
 to give it her, and then I shouldn't have it.
      /. "Very well, Alfred, you shall do exactly as you please,
 but I will get two plates."
     And now let us see what he does. I won't interfere one way
or the other.
       This spring Butler did something he had often
threatened to do—he took a short outing to Holland in
April to see the bulbs in bloom and to refresh his memory
of the Rembrandts at Amsterdam.
       Butler's lecture " The Humour of Homer " having                .
appeared in The Eagle, he had it printed as a pamphlet
 in March by Metcalfe of Cambridge, and sent copies to
friends, among others, to Garnett, who thanked him for
the present of his discourse, "which," he wrote, "" I shall
read with no less pleasure than I heard it." Butler
adnotated this with the following explanation and
remark :
     /.*. "which I hate as much as when I heard the lecture
delivered." I have never yet had an opportunity of making this
clever euphemism my own—but I may yet have one.—S. B.,
Mar. 10, 1902.
      This comment is dated about three months before
Butler's death ; had he not been then seriously out of
health he would have remembered that in the opening of
the first chapter of " The Deadlock in Darwinism,"
which appeared in The Universal Review in April 1890
(reprinted in Essays on Life, Art, and Science and in The
Humour of Homer and Other Essays), he had already had
an opportunity, and had used it, of making something
very like " this clever euphemism " his own. Speaking
of Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace he wrote,
" Neither can be held as the more profound and con
scientious thinker ;." . ."neither is the more ready to
welcome criticism and to state his opponent's case in the
most telling and pointed way in which it can be put ;

         132            IRRITATING THE SPECTATOR                                         xxx
  1892 . . . neither is the more genial, generous adversary, or
Aet- 56 has the profounder horror of anything even approaching
        literary or scientific want of candour," and so on for
        nearly a page. Possibly Garnett had this passage in his
        mind when he wrote his letter of thanks.
              There was a review of the pamphlet in The Spectator
        about which Butler wrote to his sister :
                                    Butler to Miss Butler.
             26 April 1892—We believe the article to be by a Miss Jane
        Harrison who wrote a book about Homer a dozen years "ago or
        so tn -the affected Church style which so many people un
        fortunately mistake for culture. She was at my lecture with the
        two Miss Butchers (Butcher and Lang's sisters). She told me
        she had disliked it very much and the Miss Butchers glared at
        me, so I went off to those who were more sympathetic. I am
        told she was scowling the whole lecture through. Of course I
        may be wrong—the review may be by Mr. Gladstone, but we
        think Miss Harrison more likely. I think most people will see
        that it is by an angry woman who is determined to see nothing
        but bad, and who will not even deign to notice the topographical
        suggestions which she cannot contradict. In fact we believe it
        to be just on a small scale Blomfield and Dr. Butler over again.1
        If my way of doing the thing is right Miss Harrison's is wrong
        and so is Mr. Butcher's ; so naturally Miss Harrison and the
        Miss Butchers abuse me as much as they can. As for Dr.
        Butler, I should think he would be delighted with the whole
        thing—at least you may be sure I should not take so much pains
        with his life and memory and then go and do anything which
        I believe he would consider in bad taste. However it is hopeless
        my trying to please The Spectator or those who take in The
        Spectator, and I may as well irritate them as I know I cannot
        please them.
              Whether Mr. Gladstone wrote the article in The
     ,  Spectator I cannot say, but, as will appear later (p. 212)
        Miss Jane Harrison did not. Butler made this note on
        the copy he kept of his letter to his sister : " The Spectator
        would never give Miss Harrison more than three columns
        of sub-leader to review a simple lecture."
              In May 1892 Butler received a letter from Emanuele
            1 There was t quarrel, arising out of Dr. Butler's Aeschylus, of which particulars
        will be found in The Life and Letters of Dr. Samuel Butler, I. 55.

 xxx              EMANUELE BIAGGINI                            133
 Biaggini of Trapani. He kept what he calls an 189
 " epitomised translation " of this letter and I give it
 here as he left it, with the notes he made on it. The
notes add to the interest of the letter, and the whole
 will instruct the reader in several matters which he ought
to bear in mind when reading about the development
of the Odyssey theories. He will notice that Biaggini
accepts the view that the writer of the poem was a woman,
and boldly calls her Nausicaa.
               Signor Emanuele Biaggini to Butler.
        (Epitomised and Adnotated Translation by Butler)
                                            Trapani, so May 1892.
     Pardon my writing in Italian, for I know no English. I
have been told by the sindaco of Trapani that you have written
a pamphlet called " The Humour of Homer " in which you have
also given two letters (already published in The Athenaeum)
respecting the writer of the Odyssey and the true site of Scheria.
These letters which the sindaco has had translated and which
he has shewn to various friends have made an excellent impression
here. In my own name, therefore, and in that of my fellow-
citizens, I feel in duty bound to send you our best thanks for
the lustre which your acute remarks have shed upon our native
town.
     Meanwhile I would ask you to send me a copy of your
a Humour of Homer " that I may get it explained to me by
a friend who knows English, etc.
     [He then asks permission to make a few remarks of his own,
that have occurred to him on reading the Odyssey again by the
light of my theory.—S. B.]
     All historians who have written about Trapani are agreed
that it dates from a very remote antiquity. Here was buried the
famous sickle wherewith Saturn was mutilated ; Saturn was
worshipped here and regarded as the .founder of the city. Every
one knows that the name of the town is taken from this sickle.
     The island of Corfu claims a like origin, although Apollonius
Rhodius tells us that Corfu or Corcyra was called Drepane to do
honour to the nurse of Feace, whose name was Drepane.
     Feace was father of Nausithous, who was father of Alcinous
king of the Phaeacians, but I will deal with this more fully
later. . . .
     To return to history.   The city was important even in the

        i34          THE FEATURES OF TRAPANI                                xxx
 1S9256 nor
Aet.    the
        timesPhoenicians
             yet,
                of probably,
                           it became
                   the Sicans aand
                                Sicel
                                    Sicels
                                      aone.—S.
                                        great emporium
                                                B.], never
                                           [Trapani         commerce.
                                                            was aoccupied
                                                      andofwhen              by
                                                                    Sican city,
             Eryx, the ancient city—perhaps Hypereia—was a flourishing
        city at the time of the Trojan war. Its king Acertes received
        the exile Aeneas, according to Virgil, with all suitable munifi
        cence—the silence, however, of Virgil about the Phaeacians is
        noteworthy, and I will deal with it in a later letter. There is
        nothing, therefore, very surprising in the fact that it should have
        owned a civilisation capable of producing the Odyssey.
             I will now briefly point out the closeness with which the
        description given by Nausicaa tallies with the actual features of
        Trapani.
             1. The city surrounded by high walls, on a strip of land
        running out into the sea. Such was Trapani in days of old and
        such it remained until within the last few years.
             2. The two harbours, one on either side, where the sailors
        beached their ships. The true harbour now is on the South
        side, but also on the North side there is a shore on which small
        vessels can find shelter and be beached in safety.
             3. The aptitude of the Phaeacians for the sea. Trapanese
        sailors have always been held to be the best of sailors, whether
        in Punic, Roman, or medieval times.
             4. Distrust of, and want of courtesy towards strangers was a
        distinguishing feature of the Phaeacians. I regret to say that it
        still is so among the common people here.
             5. The temple of Neptune in the heart of the town. We
        have a tradition, quoted also by historians, that the present church
        of S. Nicola stands on the foundations of an ancient temple of
        Neptune. Ferro tells us that when the foundations of this
        church were laid open for some repairs in 1770 a small bronze
         idol was found. At this place (then shore) ships, sails, and oars
         were repaired, as they still are on the shore a little further on.
              [I omit Biaggini's 7 & 8, as abounding in untenable
         positions, but I note that Biaggini hankered from the first after
         making Nausicaa go northward to wash her clothes, instead of
        southward as I was at first inclined to do. I notice, also, that
         Biaggini had spotted the fact that it was winter when Ulysses
        landed in Scheria.—S. B.]
             9. The high mountain under which Neptune threatened to
         bury the city of Scheria, is found in Mount Eryx, which over
         hangs Trapani at no great distance.
              10. I need not epitomise what Biaggini says about
         Malconsiglio.
              11. Caves. There is the Grotta del Toro, also called the
         Giants' or the Cyclopes' cave, on the slopes of Martogna. There

XXx                  MORE FEATURES                            135
was also another cave towards the East called "the Giant's," 1892
where Father Castronovo, quoting from Fazzello, tells us that Aet- S6
in 1342 an enormous skeleton was found with colossal bones,
teeth and jaws. There is also the Grotta Emiliana. . . .
    In all the above-named caves there are found remains of
human meals [fossilized—when the inhabitants had done eating
they threw the debris of their meals, often partly chewed, on the
upper sides of the cave, where they stuck. I brought several
examples home, full of bones and sometimes hair and feathers—
S. B., Mar. 17, 1902], bones and teeth of animals, flint arms and
implements, showing that these caves have been inhabited ever
since the age of stone. I find nothing strange, therefore, that
traditions of the existence of pre-existing uncivilised races, of
great stature, and dwellers in caves suggested the episode of the
Cyclopes to the writer of the Odyssey. [It was the big stones of
the Pelasgic walls on the top of Mount Eryx that suggested the
gigantic size of the Cyclopes.—S. B.] I am confirmed in this
opinion by the fact that Fazzello and Stolberg, as you tell me,
placed the episode of the Cyclopes on the Lilyboean promontory.
    [I omit his remarks upon Alcinous s gardens. About
Dulichium and the isola lunga he takes my view. He cannot
make out why I said that the fact of Stolberg and Fazzello having
placed the Cyclops episode on the Lilyboean promontory should
have made me suspect that Scheria would not be far off". I told
him partly because I had already discovered that the writer was a
J'oung woman drawing from her own neighbourhood, and little
 ikely to draw from any other ; and partly because in Od. viii.
Alcinous seems to know all about the Cyclopes, to whom indeed
he is represented as nearly related, being half-great-nephew to
Polyphemus.
    The rest of the letter is nothing but warm invitation to come
to Trapani.—S. B.]
     About this "time Harry Quilter proposed to republish
Butler's Universal Review articles and to write a prefatory
Essay on Butler's books as a whole.
                     Butler to Harry Quilter.
     18 May 1892—What a flattering proposition ! Of course I
shall be delighted—if you think it worth while. . . . But are
you not hoaxing me altogether and presuming on my inordinate
vanity ? If you are I forgive you.
     They discussed the advisability of including some
 additional matter, and considered "The Humour of

        1 36              "QUIET DEVILMENT"                                xxx
 1892 Homer " ; but this was not available because of arrange-
Aet. 56 ments already made between Butler and Metcalfe.
                              Butler to Harry Quitter.
             21 May 1892—Otherwise, if it is thought desirable to have
        an article on the Odyssey I have abundant most aggravating and
        impudent matter about Penelope and King Menelaus which I
        could throw into an article like the classical part in " Ramblings
        in Cheapside."
             I have also an article, in great part written, called " Croesus's
        Kitchen-maid " which has nothing to do with Croesus or classics
        but has, I fancy, a good deal of quiet devilment—but I am very
        busy and shall not be able to make these articles very long. . . .
             If I write the article or articles above referred to, please don't
        say that they were written for your collection ; let it be supposed
        that they were copy left on your hands for The Universal Review
        and not used before the Review was discontinued.
              This correspondence is all I find about Quilter's
        proposal ; the foregoing extracts are interesting to me
        personally because they give the facts which I had more
        than half forgotten when I wrote the note at the end of
        " Croesus and his Kitchen-maid " in The Note-Books of
        Samuel Butler (19 12). On referring to the MS. Note-
        Books themselves I see that the note which forms the
        greater part of " Croesus and his Kitchen-maid " was
        originally written so long ago as 1880.
              In June Butler went to an At Home at Mrs. Bovill's
        and left rather abrupdy. This is from his letter of
        apology :
                                Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
              17 June 1892—I went downstairs to console myself with
         ices {they were excellent) and who should come in but Mrs. X,
        whom I like and who, I am sure, is well disposed towards me,
         but who would not believe I meant what I said in my lecture
         [" The Humour of Homer "] ; and I had to battle with her, and
         I don't believe I convinced her then. It made me feel so low
         and hopeless that even a friendly and clever woman like Mrs. X
         can think me capable of such poor pleasantry and, moreover, to
         see that even she could not see the seriousness because I had done
         my little feeble best to amuse as well as interest, that I felt the
         top of a bus and a cigarette to be the only thing I cared about.

xxx      TABACHETTI AND THE ODTSSET                            137
     This morning the thunder is over and I am all right again, so 1891
I hasten to apologise.                                              Aet. 56
     P.S.—Remember, please, that it is twenty years since I
published Erewhon and I have been battling with Mrs X's ever
since.
               Butler to Avvocato Francesco Negri.
                                                   June 19M, 1892.
     Dear Avvocato Negri—I have let your very kind and
interesting letter of April 23 remain far too long without an
answer. Pray forgive me. I have noted all the additional
matter that you tell me about Tabachetti. I wish the good
people at Varallo would throw themselves into Tabachetti one
half as well as you and Don Minina do. All that you tell me I
always find commends itself to me at once, and it always turns
out right.
     I cannot tell my own movements just yet, but shall know
shortly how to make my plans ; anyhow I intend coming to
Varallo and Casale in August or September, but which it is will
depend on whether I go to Sicily first, or after having been to
Casale, and this depends on other people.
     They are translating my pamphlet about Homer at Trapani,
and are evidently a good deal surprised and interested at having
 the Odyssey thrust upon them. Here [England] the pamphlet
 has met with a very bad reception, and I have been very angrily
 or even savagely attacked for it. The writers pass over the
 topographical question without notice ; they see they can do
 nothing against that ; nor do they say much against my supposi
 tion that the poem was written by a woman ; but they say I have
 vulgarised Homer, and that I am laughing at what is great
 poetry and should not be profanely handled. I have made no
 replies; but in the first place the Odyssey is much more "alia
 buona " than people think it is, and, in the next, I really do not
 see anything particularly vulgar in my translation. However the
 critics do, so there I am obliged to leave it. I believe the grava
 men really is that I, who am not a Homeric student, should have
 stumbled upon such interesting things in connection with the
 Odyssey, things moreover that they are inexcusable for not having
 found out long ago. And so it was here in England with
 Tabachetti. It seems to me that the average English critic has
 neither eyes nor ears, and neither knows nor wants to know, but
only thinks of scratching the eyes out of the head of anyone who
 looks at things for him or her self. However, this is beginning
to be spiteful.
      They have begun to print [the translation into Italian of]

         138                        TRAPANI                            XXX
  189a my Ex Voto. I am alarmed at its length and prolixity. The
Aet. 56 book has been hanging about so long and has had so many things
        stuck into it, that it is no longer a book, but a repertorium and
        has the look of a patched thing. However I cannot help it.
        The difficulties of distance, foreign language, and the not having
        the thing in my own hands are too great for me and it must
        stand as it is.
            I look forward with great pleasure to seeing you and Don
        Minina and your sons, and will write again before long to arrange
        a time more definitely.—With all kind regards, believe me, dear
        Avvocato, yours very truly,                          S. Butler.
            P.S.—I find I shall probably go to Sicily at the beginning of
        August, and come to Varallo and Casale in September.
             In June he went to the Shrewsbury school dinner and
        then, at last, came the time to which he had been looking
        forward ever since he had come to the conclusion that
        Trapani was the place where the Odyssey was written.
        On the 23rd July he started alone for Sicily. But he
        could not go direct, because he was delayed in North
        Italy. He travelled via Novara so as to see Varallino
        where there are chapels with figures in them which turned
        out to be no good, but they might have been by Taba-
        chetti. Then, after going for a day to salute his friends
        at Varallo, he went to Casale-Monferrato. Here the
        Avvocato Negri took him to Alessandria to see an entomb
        ment in the church of S. Maria di Castello ; they had
        hoped it might be by Tabachetti, but as soon as they saw
        it they settled it could not be, though it might be by his
        son Nicola. One of the statues represented an old man
        wonderfully like an old man aged eighty-six, who was
        then living at Casale and was a descendant of the great
        Tabachetti ; this old man at Casale had a son with the
        characteristic pointed chin which Tabachetti was fond of
        giving to his figures.
             From Alessandria Butler went through Genoa and Pisa
        to Rome and Naples, thence by steamer, calling at Palermo,
        to Trapani. Here he stated his business and made the
        personal acquaintance of his correspondent Emanuele
        Biaggini, a man of about his own age who had fought
        with Garibaldi and was by his side when he was wounded

XXX                  MOUNT ERYX                         139
at Aspromonte. Biaggini enthusiastically accepted Butler's 1892
Odyssean theories and did all in his power to help him. Aet- 56
He took him about, showed him the Scoglio di Malcon-
siglio, the absence of river, the harbour on one side of the
sickle-shaped promontory and what was formerly used as
a harbour on the other. He pointed out two of the
Aegadean islands, namely, Favognana and Levanzo which
lie off Trapani to the west, and took him about in the
neighbourhood searching for the scene of Nausicaa's
washing.
     Just behind Trapani rises Monte San Giuliano, which
in classical times was famous as Mount Eryx and is now
often called Monte Erice. It is about 2500 feet high
and admirably supplies what was wanted to give point to
Neptune's threat about burying the city under a great
mountain. There has been a town upon its summit from
the earliest ages. It is mentioned by Thucydides, who
says (quoted on p. 222 of The Authoress of the Odyssey)
that " some of the Trojans, who had escaped from the
 Greeks, migrated to Sicily. They settled in the neigh
 bourhood of the Sicans and were all together called Elymi,
their cities being Eryx and Segesta."         Biaggini took
 Butler up the mountain and showed him the magnificent
 view which includes all the four Aegadean islands, namely
 Favognana and Levanzo which he had showed him from
 below, Marettimo which cannot be seen from Trapani
 because Levanzo conceals it, and S. Pantaleo which lies to
 the south and is too near the land and too low to be easily
 distinguishable.   When Butler saw Marettimo floating
 over Levanzo, " lying all highest up in the sea to the
 west " he understood that it must have supplied the
 authoress with the original of Ithaca, when she is describ
 ing it from without. On clear days the view includes
 two more islands, Ustica to the east, and Pantellaria to
 the west, and this last, which is about half way to Africa,
 he at once settled must be the island of Calypso.
     He stayed with the family of Biaggini, which con
sisted of Emanuele, Agostino, and three sisters, who
were spending the summer in their house on the Mountain
 to escape the heat, as is done by most of the well-to-do

        i4o              BUTLER'S ACCIDENT                           xxx
 1892 Trapanesi.       On 4th August 1892, in the morning,
A«. 56 peppmo Pagoto and some student friends took him to
       I Runzi near the Rock of the Ravens (The Authoress,
       p. 171). It was a rough walk and in the afternoon,
       after they had returned, Butler slipped on the uneven
       stones in the street of the town and put his foot out of
       joint. He was taken to Biaggini's house and, as the
       doctor was not at home, his assistant, a barber-surgeon,
       Peppino, came and pulled the foot into place again.
       This interested the patient nearly as much as the pre
       historic remains, because Handel's father was a barber-
       surgeon.
            Butler was not what would be called a good patient
       and, the doctor having ordered three weeks of absolute
       quiet in bed, was up the day after the accident and
       going about on crutches ; but he was not able to leave
       the Mountain so soon as he had intended, and all the
       time he was there he stayed in the house of Emanuele
       Biaggini whose sisters with the utmost kindness nursed
       him as much as he would permit, and all the family
       became very much attached to him.
            When Butler fell in the street, Peppino Pagoto was
       the one who helped him to rise and was exceedingly kind
       and attentive to him while he was laid up. Peppino is
       a native of Mount Eryx, that is to say, he is a descendant
       of the Cyclopes who built the megalithic walls of the
       city, and Butler, on discovering this, was delighted,
       because Peppino's face is noticeably round and the name
       Cyclopes means circle-faced, not one-eyed (The Authoress,
       p. 190).
                             Butler to H. F. Jones.
           7 Aug. 1892—I am going on all right and am to go down
       in a carriage to Trapani to-morrow. There are three very nice
       intelligent boys here, aet. 15-18, who have taken me under their
       wing and seem to like fussing with an invalid. They are very
       good and you would like them very much. Then there is a
       black sea-captain [Capitano Messina, since deceased] about 40,
       all fire and fury but a wonderful person. He translated my
       "Humour of Homer" into Italian, and I do not think I ever
       saw a finer piece of translation. Just as I hope and think I have

xxx                  MAKING FRIENDS                           14 1
made my translation read as though it were not a translation, 1S92
so has he—it is full of life and vigour. But he is a scorcher. Aet- 56
About ten years ago he got into some row which made him
furious ; so he went on to the upper deck of his ship, put a
pistol into his mouth and pulled the trigger ; but the ball came
out at his eye and lodged in the bone immediately above his eye.
Finding he had failed, he flung himself into the sea and, when
fished out of that, had to be bound with cords or he would have
killed himself with his hands. He was quieted in the end and
recovered absolute health, with the exception that his eye, of
course, was gone.
     10 Aug. 1892—The doctor came to-day and cut open the
old bandage and made me a new one. I can walk about the
room without sticks and the doctor says I may ; but, when the
bandage was off, the leg from the toes to the knee, all along the
left side, was such a mass of rainbow bruises I should have been
ashamed to ask a dog to eat it.
     He made many friends at Trapani, not only among
the young students, to some of whom he gave lessons in
English, but among the elder members of the more staid
and wealthy families—the D'All, the Platamone, the
Adragna, the Burgarella.           Among these was Conte
Agostino Sieri Pepoli whose summer residence, Le Torri,
is on the summit of Monte San Giuliano. " My reception
generally is overwhelming and quite equal to anything my
vanity can desire." And again : " I never was treated
so magnificently as I am here." And again : " They
treat me like a Royal Personage."
                      Butler to H. F. Jones.
     16 Aug. 1892—Everyone is exceedingly good to me and I
have no doubt it will help matters that people should have got to
know me and feel at home with me ; for here, those who interest
themselves in the affair treat me much as at Varallo—I mean as
though they had known me all their lives.
     When he was sufficiently recovered to hobble about
he was going through the main street of Erice with
Biaggini one day and they met a ragged, dirty, but
robust old priest who looked about seventy-five but was
said to be some years more than eighty.

      142                 THE OLD PRIEST                           xxx
1*92       " Jupiter ? " said Biaggini.
             voice.
"•5 clear"Giove,"      at once replied the priest with a strong
           " Omnetrinumo— ? " said Biaggini.
           " Este perfettimo," was the rejoinder.
           Then Biaggini said, " Pretere ? " and the priest replied,
     " Malandrinumo."
          This was the famous Don Giovanni Sciallara of Mount
     Eryx. The dialogue is really a way of saying, " You do not
     know Latin," and of answering, " Yes, I do."
          "Jupiter?" says the first, meaning "What is the Latin for
     that ? " " Giove " is the answer. " Omne trinum—? " says the
     other, meaning " Now you go on, if you can," and the priest
     continues, " Est perfectum." He is said to refuse a single glass
     of wine ; he will not accept less than three because of the
     Trinity, but will take as many threes as any one will give him.
     " Pretere ? " continues the first, meaning " Prete ? (or Priest)
     What's that ? " "Malandrinumo " (A bad man) is the answer.
          This old priest was a great favourite with the people whom
     he used to cure by putting their heads under his cloak and
     mumbling benedictions. If they did not get better it was
     because they were wicked.
          It was suggested that he should be got to come and bless my
     foot, but I was afraid it might get about and do me harm at
     Trapani, so I resisted the no small temptation of having my foot
     blessed by him.
           At last Butler was well enough to be driven down to
     Trapani where he stayed, making more friends, going
     about in the neighbourhood to see everything that might
     bear upon the Odyssey, and getting the local features well
     into his head. He put up at the Albergo delle Cinque
     Torri and slept in a room which had been occupied by
     the Emperor Charles V. The house is no longer used
     as an inn ; it stands where two streets meet and on the
     corner, high up, is a projecting crown surmounting a
     face, both in carved stone ; the face is popularly supposed
     to represent the emperor but, except for the presence of
     the crown, there is no reason for thinking this is so, and
     it is more likely " una maschera qualunque."
           It was here that the incident mentioned in " Thought
     and Language " (Essays on Life, Art, and Science)

xxx                  THE SORDO-MUTO                            143
occurred, when the deaf-mute waiter, speaking entirely >«92
in gesture, told a caller that his friend who wore divided Aet' *6
spectacles, with the heavy eyebrows and the white beard,
meaning Butler, had had his dinner and gone out about
five minutes before. This extraordinary fellow is no
longer a waiter (1913) but is employed at the railway
station. We used to think that he was born deaf and
dumb, but I have since been told that his affliction is the
result of an accident which occurred when he was about
five years old, that he is married and has three children.
His name is Leonardo Rao, but he is generally spoken
of as "il Muto" or "quel Sordo-Muto."
     Butler was one day in the church of the Annunziata
at Trapani, the sanctuary of the famous Madonna di
Trapani, and it was a festa.
    Some peasants brought in a woman who was afflicted with
a nervous disorder and whom they supposed to be possessed by
a devil ; they were elderly people and came from some remote
country district, but I was told there had been many such on the
preceding day. The men supported the woman on either side
and kept shouting :
    "Viva! Viva! Viva Maria!"
    They were trying to put these words into the mouth of the
woman, for if she could be got to say them, the devil would
come out of her. But it is not reckoned quite safe to stand by
on these occasions, you must shut your mouth and put the fore
fingers of each hand in front of it in the shape of the Cross ; for
if the devil catches you with your mouth open and no Cross in
front of it, he will be down your throat in a moment and it may
be no end of a job to get him up again. I did not see that they
seemed to make much progress.
    There are still in the remoter districts professional devil-
brokers who beat the sufferers unmercifully with the intention
of making things so hot for the devil that he won't stay but
comes flying out like a wasp or bee.
     It reminded him of what Uncle James had seen at
Funchal in 1764 (ante, J. p. 8).
     Biaggini took him with some friends to the Grotta
del Toro in which Ulysses hid his treasure {The Authoress,
p. 165). " Next to Malconsiglio this is the prettiest bit
of identification in the whole matter."               They went

         144                           MOTYA                          xxx
  1892 beyond, to the caves on Cofano {The Authoress, p. 193),
' et' s where the cave-dwellers " provided us with snow white
        table-cloths and napkins for the lunch which we had
        brought from Trapani, and they gave us any quantity of
        almonds fried in a little salt and butter ; most unexpected
        of all, the salt they brought us was mixed with chervil
        seed" (The Authoress, p. 194). They went to Custonaci
        where is the sacred picture of the Madonna and where
        they saw " geese eating mash out of a trough as in the
        Odyssey. There is no grass for them to eat."
              Another day he was taken to S. Pantaleo, which is
        the fourth of the Aegadean islands, but not a prominent
        object like the others, because, as I have said before, it
        lies low and near the shore in the direction of Marsala.
        It is the site of Motya, very famous in her day, and
        Butler hoped to find remains that would throw light on
        his theories about the early civilisation of the neighbour
        hood. In spite of his foot he
        . . . walked with help all round the island and saw many squared
        stones ready to be taken away. Whenever they find a nice bit
        of stone they re-face it and take it to Marsala which, no doubt,
        is largely built of Motya stones—hence the utter absence of all
        ruins save at the north gate and a vestige of the south.
              On the 23rd August he returned to Palermo where
        he made the acquaintance of Professor Salinas, Director
        of the Museum, and of Professor Romano from whom
        he gathered that Eryx and Cefalu contained the most
        noteworthy examples of megalithic remains in the island.
        He went with Professor Romano to Cefalu
        . . . and climbed to the upper [Cyclopean] fragments, at mid-day,
        after lunch, in broiling sun ; with my foot still very infirm this
        was not easy, but we did it and were richly rewarded. I know
        not which were the more interesting, the fragments by the
        seaside or those above, but they both prove the city to have been
        the site of a great civilization. No doubt Laestrygonia.
             Then we went to the cathedral, the mosaics in the choir of
        which (date 1 182, etc.) are much the finest of their kind that
        I have ever seen.
             In the train there was a doctor, so I showed him my foot
        and he spoke very seriously about the risk I ran in going about

xxx                         ETNA                        145
while it was so much swollen. I let him bandage it next day 1892
and stayed a day in Palermo for the starch to dry.          Act. 56
     He went to Catania and, as there was an eruption of
Mount Etna, insisted on going up to see it, notwith
standing that the doctor in the train had spoken so
seriously about his foot. He accomplished the excursion
successfully, as he generally did everything he had once
fairly set his mind on doing. He started, with an
Anglicised Swiss whom he happened to meet at Catania,
on the evening of the 26th August ; they had supper
at Nicolosi where they got horses which took them half
way up the mountain to the place where the main stream
of lava was coming out. They were from 9 p.m. till
2 a.m. riding up to this spot, and from 3 to 8 a.m.
riding down. It was bitterly cold, and a wonderfully
clear starlight night, with Jupiter larger than he had
ever seen him. His foot was very painful and his saddle
intolerable ; yet the sight of the eruption well repaid
him.
     Returning to Catania he went from there to Messina
and, in the train, got into conversation with a Sicilian
gentleman who spoke English and pointed out the rocks
which lie off the coast about half-way between Catania
and Aci Reale, saying that those were the rocks which
Polyphemus hurled at Ulysses. He thought he was
giving a piece of interesting information to an intelligent
foreigner, but Butler said at once :
     " Excuse me, sir, but that can hardly be, because
Polyphemus lived on the other side of the island ; I have
myself been photographed standing in his cave and it
is near Trapani."
     Finding that the Sicilian gentleman was interested,
he went on to tell him that his reason for coming to the
East side of the island was to see these very Scogli
de' Ciclopi and compare them with the Asinelli and the
Formiche near Trapani {The Authoress, p. 189), which
he had made up his mind were really the rocks hurled by
Polyphemus.
    The IISicilian gentleman was Professor Giovanni
    VOL.                                             L

         i46                           MILK                              xxx
 1892 Platania of Aci Reale and Catania. I formerly thought
Aet. 56 jt was fas brother Gaetano, and made the mistake of
         saying so in my Diary of a Journey. Giovanni Platania,
        on returning to Aci Reale, recounted to his friend, Mario
        Puglisi Pico, the conversation he had had in the train,
        and they invited Butler to Aci Reale, but he had not
        time to go there that year.
              He went by sea from Messina to Naples where he
        saw the museum and had his foot dressed. He went to
        Cava and
        . . . thence, next morning, to Paestum which deserves all that
        is said of it ; but how immeasurably superior the Temple of
        Neptune is to the others ! It is like fine Norman as against one
         piece of 14th century, and another of late and poor Perpendicular.
         Heaven forgive me if I am talking nonsense ! Thence back to
        Naples and next day to Rome. Not well. Too much knocked
        about.
              At Rome he rested ; but his notion of rest did not
        preclude pottering about the Capitol, going up the tower,
        and seeing the prehistoric museum and St. Peter's. He
        wrote to me from Rome, 30th August 1892, and, after
        saying that the authoress of the Odyssey was drawing from
        what she had seen, continued :
             I have found out about the ferry [at Trapani]. In winter,
        after a strong N. wind, the two seas used to meet, and a cart or
        boat was necessary till a few years back when the land was raised.
        The scene is laid in winter and this is the ferry.
             Lastly you remember that, in the country of the Laestrygonians,
        a man who could do without sleep could earn double wages, for
        the shepherds drive out their flocks to feed by night and those that
        come into the town in the morning meet those who are driving
        out the flock for the day, so that, if a man could do without
        sleep, he might earn two wages.
             This means that civilization was so high there that, instead
        of having only a morning supply of milk, as at Trapani and
        Palermo, they had organised a double set of goats and had fresh
        milk in the evening as well. Hence the small local joke about
        the sleepless man [post, p. 246] which enables me to connect
        Laestrygonia with the colossal fragments at Cefalu, more especi
        ally as the topographical position between Ustica (the island of
        Aeolus) and the Lipari islands (Circe and the Sirens) is perfect.
        Now is this pretty, or is it not ?

 xxx             SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS                             147
     I have satisfied myself of the exact position of Eumaeus's 1892
 hut and of the Hill of Mercury and of the fountain. All is Act. 56
 perfectly clear and easily identifiable. I have also satisfied myself
 that Eryx was a ruined city in the time of the Odyssey and that
 the great civilization, of which it must have been the seat, must
 be thrown back to a very remote date, even as compared with
 the Odyssey. However, I must shut up. Scylla and Charybdis,
 though grossly exaggerated, are more genuine than I suspected.
 Scylla really did wreck a large steamer last year, and I saw the
"wreck. Charybdis really does prevent sailing vessels from going
out, sometimes for three or four days together, and the two are
very close to one another. There ! I have several other letters
to write and I am rather tired ; but have I done well or have
I not ?
      He went from Rome to Corton a to see the walls,
which he remembered having seen when he went to Italy
as a boy with his people, and to Florence to refresh his
memory of the walls at Fiesole which he had told Paget
to see. After Florence he joined me at Varese. I had
gone to Varallo where I had met Mademoiselle Gabrielle
Vaillant and Miss Scott. I went with them over the
Colma to the Lago di Orta, crossed the Lago Maggiore
and so to the Sacro Monte above Varese. Butler arrived
the same day, or the next, full of his Sicilian experiences
and of the discoveries he had made in confirmation of
his theories about the Odyssey.
                   Emanuele Biaggitti to Butler.
                      (Translation by Butler)
     12 Sept. 1892—The name Nausicaa is becoming quite a
household word here. When people meet a pretty girl they say
" Here comes a Nausicaa." And then they begin talking about
the Odyssey and about you, and run on for hours about our famous
picnics to the caves of the Scurati, Custonaci, Motya, etc.

       150                   AVOIDING COLDS                            xxxi
 1893 doubtful. I cannot, however, pretend that I can go further than
Aet 57 admit that the part between Eryx and the town was often an
       island. As for the Western part that you have marked blue—
       that may perfectly well have been water. The Odyssey says
       nothing about it one way or the other, and my argument is not
       affected one way or the other. I have therefore no opposition to
       make to this, and am, with kind regards and many thanks, Yours
       very truly,                                          S. Butler.
            Butler gave the lecture, " The Whitewashing of
       Penelope," referred to in Mrs. Grosvenor's reminiscences,
       in March 1893. This is the letter he wrote after it :
                              Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
            7 March 1893—The obligation was entirely on my side ; you
       cannot tell what a help it was to me ; and really I thought they
       did seem to like it, which I assure you I had done my level best
       to make them do.
            Mrs. Fuller Maitland has kindly sent me a card for the 15th.
       Of course I shall go.
            I will come to tea to-morrow with great pleasure, and will
       tell Jones, but do not know whether he has not to go to Mile
       Vaillant's for a lesson.
            By the way—do you think you sit too near your large window
       when you have a cold f It occurred to me yesterday that a small
       fine draught might get in, and nothing turns a slight cold into a
        bad one more quickly. Also, I find I have not had one single
       cold since last August—a thing for me unprecedented. I attribute
        this to wearing soft flannel night-shirts instead of calico, and to
       keeping well away from my windows during the winter when
        reading or writing.
            As for your proposal I am sure it will be a great pleasure to
       fall in with it when I know what it is, which I shall no doubt do
       to-morrow afternoon.
             This Easter we went to Brussels and Dinant for Butler
       to continue his researches about Tabachetti, and this Easter
       I left Barnard's Inn because the place was sold and partly
       pulled down. I found new rooms at 1 Staple Inn, and
       began to live there. The night-watchman at Staple Inn
       was named Hatt, and was quite as much of an old fossil
       as Tom at Barnard's Inn ; but he did not call the hours
       during the night. Cousens, who lived in the Inn, was

XXXI                         ROSES
talking to him about the garden, and Hatt said, speaking 1893
very deliberately :                                                  Aet.5
     " Most of these flowers, Sir, I planted them myself.
Not all of them. Most of them."
     " I suppose you are interested in gardening," said
Cousens ; " have you a garden at home ? "
     " Not exactly at home, Sir ; but I have a bit of a
garden on the railway. The North London Railway."
     " And what kind of soil is it ? "
     " Well, Sir, it's a kind of a redooced loam, it is."
     " That's an uncommon kind of soil."
     " You see, Sir, it's like this ; when the railway come
along, it took off" the surface and that redooced it."
     " Oh, I see. And what kind of flowers do you grow
there ? "
     " Roses. Roses. There's the glory di John. He
do very well. And William Allen. He's all right. And
the Duchess of Connaught. She's got the worm."
     We told Butler, and he said he could see possibilities
in old Hatt ; he might have come out of Dickens.
                      Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
                                                  April %th, 1 89 j.
    Dear Mrs. Bovill—I did not get back till 5.30 yesterday
afternoon and could not have got to St. Andrew's Place in time
—you will, I am sure, see that this is bona fide.
    I am extremely sorry to hear that you have been anxious
about Merric ; I will call to-morrow afternoon and enquire.
I hope I shall find him all right again, and I hope also you will
be better yourself, but what with cold, nursing, and rehearsing
I hardly expect that you will be up and about, and shall be very
glad to find myself mistaken. I go to Shrewsbury on Monday
afternoon and shall return on Thursday or Friday. Any day
after then will suit me perfectly well, and I assure you Alfred
and I will do our best to turn out some nice negatives [photo
graphs of her room]. I got some snapshots during this Easter
that ought to turn out well. I took a mean advantage of a little
boy and a little girl who, I suppose, had not very long had their
breakfast. They were by the road-side and I hope the negative
will be successful, but I can only show it by leaving it about to
be seen—any emphasised calling of attention to it will be out of
the question.

       1 52                           JOWETT                              XXXI
 1893        I hope I shall hear that you are pretty well to-morrow, or
Aet-57 else I shall begin to feel that I am like the man who said, "I
       had a friend once, but, damn her, she was always catching cold."
             With kind regards, Believe me always yours very truly,
                                                                 S. Butler.
              In June, Butler's uncle, Philip Worsley, the father of
       Reginald Worsley, died, and Butler went to the funeral
       which gave him another opportunity of wearing his
       silk hat.
              In July he went to Shrewsbury for the School
       Speech-day.                 .                           *
                               Jowett at Shrewsbury
             Jowett came down to the Shrewsbury School speeches last
       week, and I was asked to meet him at dinner at Moss's house.
       I heard the speech he made—it was a sermon not a speech —on
        the duties of a master and on those of a schoolboy. He read it,
        badly, and it bored everyone. Seeing, therefore, how old, feeble,
       and dull he was, I determined to keep out of his way and not to
        try and draw him about the Odyssey. I was put to sit pretty
        near him at dinner, but we did not speak—we hardly could.
        Nor did we speak after dinner. In the drawing-room I kept
        near the door, right at the other end of the room, while he
        seemed well occupied with those who were round him. Pres
        ently, however, he rose, toddled across the room and came
        up to me.
              " I think I have had the pleasure of meeting you here before,
        Mr. Butler."
              " Yes, Sir, but I did not think you would remember me."
              " Oh, I remember you very well ; you know how heartily
        we all laughed over your Erewhon—and moreover, there was
        a great deal of truth in that book."
              "It was like everything eke, Sir, true, and not true."
              " Well, yes, I suppose that is it."
              "And then, Erewhon was published more than twenty years
        ago,"and      have you
                ButI have       ever
                            never    tried ? " in making you all laugh again."
                                  succeeded
              "Oh yes, I have written a good many books since Erewhon."
              " How is it, then, that I have never heard of any of them ? "
              " I suppose, Sir," I said, laughing, " because they failed to
        attract attention ; but a year ago I did myself the honour of
         sending you a pamphlet on the Humour of Homer, and another
         this spring on the Sicilian provenance of the Odyssey."
            , "Ah, to be sure, I remember there was something of the

xxxi               MEGALITHIC WALLS                          153
kind, but I have so many of those things sent me that—well— 1893
to speak frankly I never read either of them."                    Aet. 57
    " Why should you, Sir ? It was proper of me to send them
as a mark of respect which I should have been sorry to omit, but
I had very little idea that you would read them."
     I kept on smiling all the time, but was particularly careful
not to try and draw him, or tell him anything. He then turned
the subject on to Dr. Butler, and assured me that everyone
interested in the classics would read my Life of him, whereon
we talked for another five minutes or so and parted very
amicably.
     The conversation, however, confirmed me in the opinion
I had formed already, that very few people know any of my
books except Erewhon which hangs rather as a millstone about
my neck.
      On the 14th of July Butler left London alone, and
went, via Basel and the S. Gottardo, to Casale where the
 Avvocato Negri, who had been continuing his investiga
 tions about t Tabachetti, communicated the results to him,
 and Butler in return told him what he had found out at
 Dinant. He then went on through Rome and spent
 some time among the ancient cities between Rome and
 Naples. The megalithic walls fascinated him. He did
 not find much at Sora, but at Arpino—" Qualche cosa di
 stupendo ! "
     The walls [he wrote to me] are a conglomerate of diluvial
 stones embedded in lime—very large, but hardly so colossal as
 those of Erice and Ccfalu. Throughout there is a kind of wild
 ovarian tumour sort of mad yearning after regularity, of course,
 but it is never reached, though here and there they seemed close
 on it—like my father's whistling of the Easter hymn ; he had
 got it, but he hadn't got it right. "'.
                        Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                      Ferentino.
     24 July 1893—At Atina [the. walls were] of less interest
 but still enough to show that those devils, whoever they were,
 were there. Yesterday I left for Veroli and Alatri, the first
 very interesting. The second—Good heavens ! the gate went
 through a Cyclopean wall 90 feet thick—and such stones !
     My driver crooned all the time, beginning on the dominant
 and droning on it ever so long, then tumbling down like

         154                                DANCING
 1893 "Nilus' flow"1 to the supertonic, resting a short space, then up
Aet- 57 to the dominant and down again through the supertonic to the
        tonic on which he droned as he had done on the dominant.
        This he repeated over and over again with a very strange and
        sweet effect ; but, at last, he came to an end, and judge of my
        surprise when the last time, instead of droning on the tonic, he
        walked leisurely through the leading note and droned on the
        submediant, after which he was mute. For God's sake ask
        Rockstro what that meant.2
              At Veroli in the upper Pelasgic town, close by the Pelasgic
        walls, I came upon a street ball—everyone dancing in the street.
        I never knew what dancing was before, I could have looked at it
        for hours. Each partner gave his or her right hand to his or
        her partner, male or female, taking the partner's left hand. They
        danced at one another and to one another all the time—old men
        with old men, old women with old women, boys, girls, young
        men, young women, every one higgledy-piggledy with every one.
        All so terribly in earnest that even my camera was powerless
        to attract them. The music, on an accordion, was :
        et cetera ad infinitum ; no variation of any kind. Tune would
        have been a disturbance and impertinence that should only appear
        when there was need of such vanity.8
             I dined in the kitchen with mine host in his shirt-sleeves, my
        driver, mine hostess and the boy, all in our shirt-sleeves. All
        this at Veroli and thence to Alatri, and there ! fleas and dirt
        beyond all words. . . . Well, here at Ferentino the walls are not
        less interesting and the inn is cleaner. I asked the landlord what
        was the best inn at Segni. He said it did not matter ; that if
            1 He it thinking of Narcissus and means " Nilus' tide."
                                 Shall I to Egypt's dusky bonds
                                    A portion of my wealth confide.
                                   To morning's
                                 Where                o'er Nilus'
                                         Memnon'srayfabled        tide?
                                                           voice responds
            * It appears from a subsequent letter that it was like this :
            Last time.
         ft     /!s     '  '   to
                                                    r—1—J        B-
        f?        ^J- ¦—¦       —bS^2=
            I showed it to Rockstro but got nothing out of him except that —<&—            in the
                                                                                   it was' 0
        Aeolian mode.
            1 This is how they danced in the Odyssty after the death of the suitors.

XXXI                        DANGER                              155
a man had quattrini all inns were good. I said I differed from 1893
him—all depended on the cuore in dentro dell' albergatore, if that Aet. 57
was good a few quattrini would go a long way ; if that was bad
ever so many quattrini would hardly produce any effect at all.
He immediately pulled out a snuff-box of strong snuff and gave
me a pinch which was very refreshing. At the same moment
his wife entered—seized the water-bottle and, seeing I wanted
no more, sprinkled it all over the floor, in the name, I am sure,
of the blessed gods that live in heaven.
    Address " Poste Restante, Aci Reale, Sicily."
                      Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                          Com, about 28 July 1893.
    Dear Jones — I wrote yesterday, but have rather a reason
for writing again to-day, but it is not worth mentioning.
I left Segni at 5.15 on a pony with a guide. The landlord
insisted on coming too.       I do not see why he should and I
don't like him but I found it hard to shake him off" without
an open rupture. It was a lovely ride of 7 hours all among
the mountains to Norma where the walls are quite up to the
others. Then two hours seeing these same walls and four more
coasting along the side of the Apennines to Cori, about 1500
feet above the Pontine Marshes which lay like a map beneath —
very fine. At Cori in the hotel, which is still excessively bad, I
fancy that I can descry, etc. The walls, so far as I have seen
them, more full of suggestion than any I have yet seen.
     Not to be too mysterious, since beginning this I have made
up my mind. I suspect the landlord of putting some gaol-bird
like looking fellows at Norma up to way-laying me on my return
over the mountains. I am not going to have this, so I shall send
my horse back with him and the guide, and go round by tram
and railway which is feasible, and I have told the landlord that I
do not feel well and shall do this. You may take your oath to
that. It will cost me 3 or 4 francs but it will make matters
safe.—S. B.
     This was disturbing, and I showed the post card to
Roclcstro ; he assumed that the worst had happened and
wrote to me that he had lain awake all night " trying to
guess how much ransom the fiends would demand " ; we
were both inexpressibly relieved when the next post card
came beginning " I am now at Aci Reale."
     The broken sentence about his fancying he can descry
in the inn, which is still excessively bad, etc., is a

        156               ALFRED AND ACI REALE                             xmi
 1893 reminiscence of a school incident which he introduced into
        speaking
        had
Act. 57 dogs
        The said
              Way
               of the
                   totoofButler
                          Ernest
                           All Flesh
                         monks     : ofabout
                                        St.(chap,
                                            Bernard,
                                               the xliv.),
                                                       sayswhere
                                                     copy   what
                                                           of     Dr. Kennedy
                                                               Alcaics  on the
                                                                       Skinner,
            " In this copy of Alcaics—which is still excessively
        bad—I fancy that I can discern some faint symptom of
        improvement."
            Alfred had as much difficulty with Aci Reale as he
        had had with "caparisoned." First he called it Acki-Ahly.
        I said :
               No,
               You
               Well,
               No ;Alfred.
            ""Isn't    that
                        it's
                       said
                         that's
                             Aci
                             Acki-Ahly."
                              it, what
                                     Reale."
                                     That's
                                  Sir?"       not Sir."
                                          I said,  right. It is Aci Reale."
             " Well, let me try again—Ackilli-Ahly ; there, that's
        right, isn't it, Sir ? "
            As he wrote it correctly on the envelopes and none of
        the letters ever miscarried, we agreed that this was near
        enough and accurate pronunciation was excused.
             Butler's friends at Aci Reale got him to write some
        articles about his Odyssey theory for the Rassegna della
        Letteratura Siciliana, a magazine then being edited by
        Mario Puglisi Pico. They also did him the honour of
        electing him a Socio Corrispondente both of the Accademia
        di Scienze Lettere ed Arti de' Zelanti di Aci Reale and
        of the Accademia Dafnica di Scienze Lettere e delle Arti
        in Aci Reale.
             Butler also wrote for // Lambruschini, a scholastic
        periodical published at Trapani. All that he wrote in
        these papers was used up as material for The Authoress of
        the Odyssey.
             He went for a long day to Siracusa and was taken
        round by Politi who showed him all the antiquities. In
         the absence of polygonal walls he had to be contented
         with early Greek work. He passed through Palermo
         where he spent a morning in the museum with the early
         Etruscan work and the metopes from Selinunte and then
         went on to Trapani.

xxxi                     PANTELLARIA                         157
      Here he reconsidered the sites of the Grotta del 1893
Toro and the cave where Ulysses hid his treasure, and Aet-5?
saw that the bay of S. Cusumano must be the harbour
Reithron of the Odyssey. He went with Biaggini up the
Mountain, and Conte Pepoli showed him, in his garden,
the remains of an old wall and, in the light of all the
experience he had gathered between Rome and Naples,
he reconsidered the walls of Eryx. He returned to the
site of the hut of Eumaeus near the Ruccazzu dei Corvi,
but there were not so many ravens there as there used to
be formerly, probably because the Count had attracted
them away to Le Torn. And he settled that the old
city on the Mountain must have been the original of
Hypereia in the Odyssey.
      From the Mountain he saw the island of Pantellaria,
about half-way to Africa. This he had settled was
Calypso's island and, as he was told that there were
Cyclopean walls and nuraghi there, he determined to
visit it. He stopped at the island of Favognana on his
way, and when he got to Pantellaria stayed several days
there examining all he could find, and making notes
about the walls and the prehistoric remains, and after
wards returned to Mount Eryx. In one of his letters
to me he gave some account of his stay in the island :
     I went on my mule to the top of the mountain accompanied
by my guide who was very like the busts of Socrates [" Ramblings
in Cheapside "]. The bunches of grapes sprawled on the hot
earth like heaps of amber beads. I ate too many or something
and was very unwell. ... I found the cottages of the peasants
scrupulously clean, the perfection of neatness and cleanliness.
Dr. Errera [the Sindaco] assures me that this in the country
is universal. They wall all their orange trees round with a high
circular wall with a door—sometimes 20 feet of wall. They say
it is to protect the trees from the wind.
     I can say nothing about the excellent arciprete, with his
vestments and spectacles all covered with snuff and his teeth
like the stump stones of a Pelasgic wall. Nor yet of Dr. Errera,
the pretore, the maresciallo and the two other most amiable men
with whom I supped nightly. It is too hot and I am too tired.
      Butler sent the following two post cards to Mrs.
Bovill, who was staying at The Vicarage, Chorley Wood.

         158            A SAMPLE TRANSLATION                              xxx.
 1893 They are both dated 22 Agosto 1893, and were posted
Aet- 57 at Monte San Giuliano, Trapani :
                                 Post card No. 1 .
             Dear Mrs. Bovill— I heard from Jones last night and feel
        convinced of sin in not having written ; it is not that I have so
        much to do, as that these good people here will not let me do
        anything at all. No sooner do I sit down than first one comes
        and then another—nor are they by any means proficients in the
        art of going. However—I brought it all on myself. Why could
        not I have let the Odyssey alone ? I have revised another six bks
        of which I send you a sample on another card. I don't see that
        the second 12 bks are materially less interesting than the first.
        It was very kind of you to perk Jones up by asking him to
        Chorley Wood. I wish Ch. Wd. were within reach, for I want
        a little attention myself—something has disagreed with me or
        I have disagreed with something, and this two days past I am a
        wreck. I expect I shall be all right to-morrow. I went to the
        island of Pantellaria. I and the judge, the Sindaco and the head
        of the military used to dine without our coats in the street
        outside the restaurant ; when I went away they would not let
        me pay my bill, and all accompanied me on board a mile from
        shore.—Kind regards,                                          S. B.
                                 Post card No. 2.
            xviii. 214. " Telemachus," said she addressing her son, "I
        fear you are no longer conducting yourself so discreetly as
        you used to do. When you were younger you had more sense,
        but now you are grown up, though a stranger to look at you
        would take you for the son of well-to-do people as far as size
        and good looks go, he would be mistaken, for your conduct has
        been by no means what it should have been. What is all this
        disturbance that has been going on, and how came you to allow a
        stranger to be so disgracefully ill-treated ? It is most discreditable
        to you that such usage should have been offered to anyone who
        came as a suppliant to our house."
            " I am not surprised, my dear mother, at your displeasure,"
        replied Telemachus. " I have come to years of understanding
        and know perfectly well when things are not as they should be,
        which I could not do when I was younger, but I cannot always
        keep my temper. First one and then another of these wicked
        people here keeps driving me out of my mind."

 XXXI              THE BLIND SINGER                           lS9
                     Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                  Monte Erice.    1893
     22 Aug. 1893—While in bed this morning I heard a voice       et' S7
singing in the street accompanied by a fiddle and 'cello ; it
seemed like a boy's voice :
     This he repeated over and over again, but never twice the
same exactly ; it was lovely—the voice very "simpatica." I went
to the window and found it came from a little, blind, old man
who sang falsetto. He played such a fiddle ! and his mate played
the violoncello. Then he changed and sang a more complicated
tune. So I got him and asked him to do the first over again.
 He could not. He never sings the same twice, but makes up
his tune as he goes on and then forgets it. He ought to be
followed night and day by a musical amanuensis.
     24 Aug. 1893—I am still shaky and have to keep quiet.
The general consent is that I got it at Pantellaria, which I
believe I did, and from drinking goat's milk when the goat was
in the family way, which seems to be thought here next door to
poison. I have it borne in upon me that it was this. The
Count [Pepoli] sends me excellent water from the castle every
day. Biaggini has sent a couple of bottles of extra special wine,
so I am to drink good wine and water and forswear goat's milk,
otherwise I never was better in my life. . . .
    That blind man who sings so beautifully has hardly got any
nose—it is smashed in at the bridge. When he lies, he says :
    " May God smash my nose and strike me stone blind if I am
not speaking the truth."
    I heard him again last night. His range of melody is limited
to the class of song in vogue among the Sicilian peasants, but
within that range I never heard anything to compare with it.
What the quality of voice is I know not, but I should think
" evirato."
    I have just caught this from him, but it is always varied—
never the same twice j and as long as he chooses to sing one
must listen.

         160                       SELINUNTE                           xxxi
 1893         This blind singer and his mate with the 'cello travel
        have
        about
        Butlermet
Aet- 57 vetrano  the
                 went
                   to country
                       see
                       them
                        to Selinunte
                           Calatafimi,
                              also
                                ; I inmet
                                       : Palermo.
                                            them once
                                          stopping on
                                                    From
                                                      the
                                                       at Fiesole,
                                                           way
                                                           the Mountain
                                                                 at Castel-
                                                                     and I
                              Waiting to be Hired
             At Castelvetrano I had to start the next morning at 4 a.m.
        to see the ruins of Selinunte and slept lightly with my window
        open. About 2 o'clock I began to hear a buzz of conversation
        in the piazza outside my window and it kept me awake, so I got
        up to shut the window and see what it was. I found it came
        from a long knot of men standing about, two deep, but not
        strictly marshalled. When I got up, at half-past three, it was
        still dark and the men were still there though perhaps not so
        many. I enquired and found they were standing to be hired for
        the day. Any one wanting labourers would come there, engage
        as many as he wanted and go off with them, others would come
        up and so on till about four, after which no one would hire, the
        day being regarded as short in weight after that hour. Being so
        collected, the men gossip over their own and other people's affairs
        —wonder who that fine-looking stranger going about yesterday
        with Nausicaa was, etc. [Odyssey vi. 273]. This, in fact, is
        their club and the place where the public opinion of the district
        is formed.
              At Selinunte he found the ruins as impressive as
        possible, with the stones even larger than those used in the
        walls of Eryx but
        . . . the work is all Greek, not a trace of anything Pelasgic.
        There can be no doubt that the columns were thrown down by
        an earthquake. No human enemies would have taken the trouble
        to make the destruction so thorough. Not even Christians.
             Just as I was leaving Castelvetrano station a little newspaper
        boy, of about 9 or 10 years old, came up to me, smiled, said
        " Scusi " and kissed my hand, the train moving off as he did so.
              The train took him from Castelvetrano to Calatafimi,
        from which one starts to visit Segesta. Eryx and Segesta
         were the two towns of the Elymi and, having seen the
         first, he had to see the second. Emanuele Biaggini had
         given him an introduction to Cavaliere Biagio Ingroja

xxxi                    GARIBALDI                       161
who, with the Avvocato Cabasino, met him at the station 1893
and they drove up together.                                 Aet- 57
     Calatafimi is also famous in modern history. When
it was known in i860 that Garibaldi was coming to Sicily
with his thousand men, the English wine-merchants at
 Marsala applied to the British Government for protection,
 as there was likely to be fighting. Two of our ships
were accordingly told off to do what was necessary, and
they did it in such a way that Garibaldi was able to
land with little difficulty at Marsala, whence he marched
to Calatafimi and there won his first victory over the
Neapolitans. Of course we were not to be blamed if the
evolutions of our ships, necessary for the protection of
our wine- merchants, incidentally happened to protect
Garibaldi ; nevertheless it was known that our sympathies
were with him, and the propriety and correctness with
which we managed the business were quite in the Italian
manner. It will be remembered that during the revolu
tion they themselves were writing " Viva Verdi " on every
blank wall that ofFered—a perfectly innocent thing to do ;
of course they were not to be blamed if their favourite
composer's name happened to be formed of the initial
letters of the words Vittorio Emanuele Re D' Italia.
The Sicilians never forget, and this throws some light
upon their great love for the English, especially in this
corner of the island, where I have repeatedly been told
the story of Garibaldi's landing.
     In 1862 Garibaldi made a tour in Sicily in order to
raise a band of volunteers to march on Rome, and the
first place he went to from Palermo was Calatafimi.
He attended service in the Church of the Crocefisso to
receive the Benediction of the Holy Sacrament. After
the ceremony Ingroja, who was then an enthusiastic young
priest, preached the sermon, which was less a sermon than
a passionate outburst of patriotic aspiration. The con
gregation was in an uproar, and Garibaldi, who knew how
to seize an opportunity, left his prie-Dieu in front of the
altar, approached Ingroja as he descended the pulpit steps,
seized both his hands, thanked him and inquired :
     " Of course I may not take your place ? "
     VOL. II                                        M

        1 62                     INGROJA                          xxxi
 1893        Ingroja replied that on the contrary the pulpit was at
Aet- 57 his service. Garibaldi mounted it and poured forth his
        soul to the people, dwelling upon the idea of United Italy
        with Rome as her capital, and saying in conclusion that if
        all priests were like Ingroja the political situation they all
        deplored would soon be setded to their satisfaction.
             After church Garibaldi visited the battlefield, the scene
        of his victory two years before, and then returned to the
        house on which there is now a marble tablet stating
        that he lodged there in i860 and in 1862. Recognising
        Ingroja among those present to receive him, he came to
        him, embraced him and kissed him three times, once on
        each cheek and once on the forehead. Then he went out
        on the balcony and made another speech to the people, in
        which he summarised all that had been said in church that
        morning, and, for the first time, uttered the historic
        words :
             " Roma o Morte ! "
             From Calatafimi he went to Trapani and Marsala,
        returned to Palermo, and so on through the island making
        speeches everywhere, and everywhere repeating " Roma o
        Morte ! "
             Ingroja, when Butler made his acquaintance, had left
        the church, married and settled down to his profession of
        schoolmaster. They were of the same age, within a year,
        and became fast friends. Ingroja was indefatigable in
        helping Butler in his Odyssean studies, and his sugges
        tions, unlike Sugameli's, never led to any embarrassment.
        He looked forward to Butler's annual visits as to the
        visits of a brother, and Buder, in dedicating The Authoress
        of the Odyssey to him afterwards, spoke of him as his
        " prezioso alleato."
             Ingroja took Butler to the temple of Segesta, whose
        date, 460-409 B.C., he readily accepted. They then went
        up the height to see the remains of the town and the
        theatre. Judging by the stones of the theatre he thought
         its date might be about 800-700 b.c. What was the
         date of the town of Segesta ? From here Eryx is dis
         tinctly visible and Segesta on its height, lying to the east
         of Eryx and glowing in the rays of the setting sun, must

 xjcxi                       SEGESTA                              163
 have been a prominent object in the view from the 1893
 Mountain, and therefore familiar to the authoress of the Aet" s7
 Odyssey, who, however, never mentions it. He could not
 believe that she " would have been able to keep her
 tongue off" Segesta "if it had been in existence in her
day " ; nor would she have described the Phaeacians as
 dwelling beyond the reach of enemies, as she has done, if
there was a city so near as Segesta—unless, of course, it
 were as yet only an insignificant place.
                      The Date of Segesta
     In this case the date of the foundation of Segesta is to be
placed somewhere prior, at the latest, to 800 B.C. (as being assuredly
considerably prior to the [Corinthian] colonies of Siracusa etc.)
but later than 1100 or 1050 B.C. which is as late as I dare put
the Odysstj. The Odyssey however might well go back as far as
1 150 or 1200 B.C., earlier than which I do not think it should be
placed. Roughly I should make a shot at about 1000 + as the
date of the foundation of Segesta.
      Before leaving Sicily he went to Aci Reale to correct
the proofs of a pamphlet in Italian about the Odyssey, and
then turned north via Messina, Naples, and Rome to
Casale. He would not go to Varallo because of some
thing that had occurred in the Crucifixion chapel on the
Sacro Monte.
      This chapel contains from twenty to thirty life-size
terra-cotta coloured figures, and on the frescoed walls and
ceiling are painted about 150 more figures. All the
frescoes and, with the exception of the Christ upon the
Cross, all the statues were designed and executed by
Gaudenzio Ferrari who used for the Christ an older and
very impressive wooden figure, already much venerated,
no doubt intending that its popularity and its slightly
greater archaism should detach it from those around it and
thereby enhance the austere solemnity of the scene.
in the       grave old
      ThisSacristy, its long,
                        Christthin
                                was arms
                                     deposed.      We had
                                            stretching        seen it .
                                                           helplessly
over the edge of the table on which it was lying ; and on
the Cross, under Gaudenzio's weeping angels, there was a

         164                    HANS FAESCH                            xxxi
  1893 shocking new plaster image which might have been turned
Aet- 57 out in a couple of mornings by the old Jew sculptor we
         had seen working at Crea. It was like coming upon an
         emendation by the late Sir George Macfarren in a Palestrina
         mass. The strange Christ was still on the Cross, and
         Butler marked his sense of the slight to Gaudenzio by
         refusing to go to Varallo. He wrote to Dionigi Negri
         that he would come no further up the valley than Borgo-
         Sesia where he should be happy to see any of his friends
         who cared to come down and meet him. Eight of them
         came, and they dined together.
              As soon as he returned to London he wrote to The
         Times (17th October) detailing all the circumstances.
        Arienta complained to the authorities in Rome, and the
         old figure was replaced. Three negatives of Gaudenzio's
         Crucifixion chapel taken by Butler were lent by him to
        assist in the restitution of the original figure.
              There is no longer any fear of a repetition of this kind
        of sacrilege at Varallo. Dionigi Negri told me, in 1 904,
        that the Administration has awakened to the fact that it
        possesses a valuable and unique work of art, and intends
        to take proper care of it for the future.
                              Alfred to H. F. Jones.
             22 Sept. 1893—The Governor arrived home safe last evening.
        I thought him looking very well, only a little thin, but now he
        is home again he will pick it all up before Xmas. I was very
        glad to see him after such a long absence, and so was he to see me
        again. I will not bully him more than I can help, but only a
        little teasing at times for that is only Alf1'5 nature and he does
        not really mean it.
              I had started for my holiday about the time that
        Butler returned ; we met for a few days in Switzerland,
       and I went on into Italy alone. On my return to London,
       in the train between Basel and Calais, I made the acquaint
       ance of a young Swiss from Basel, Hans Rudolf Faesch.
        He was coming to London to learn our language and our
       business ways, and, when we parted at Charing Cross,
       promised to call on me, which he did in October. I took
       him to see Butler, who was much attracted by him, and he

xxxi                CARDINAL FESCH                           165
was constantly with us, coming out for walks on Sunday 1893
and spending the evenings with us. He found employ-               " 57
ment in a business house in the city, and remained in
London about a year and a half.
      The family of Faesch, which in French is spelt Fesch,
has been long established in Basel ; its most distinguished
member was Cardinal Joseph Fesch, the half-uncle of
Napoleon. I take the following from the Biographic
 Universale (Michaud) :
     Fesch (Joseph) Cardinal, archevSque de Lyon, primat des
Gaules, etc., dtait frere uterin de Laetitia Ramolino, mere de
Napoleon I". II naquit a Ajaccio le 3 Janvier 1763. Son pere,
Francois Fesch, etait Suisse, d'une famille de Bale aisee et con-
sideree ; un de ses ancikres avait 6t€ bourgmestre de cette im-
portante cit£. Capitaine dans un regiment helvetique au service
de Genes, Francois Fesch suivit son regiment en Corse, alors sous
la domination de cette republique. II y connut Angele-Marie
Pietra-Santa, veuve en premieres noces de Ramolino ; Laetitia
etait le seul enfant de ce mariage prematurement brisd par la
mort. Francois s'eprit des charmes de la jeune veuve.
     The captain being a Protestant there were difficulties,
but he changed his religion and married the widow by
whom he had one child, afterwards known as Cardinal
Joseph Fesch, the half-brother of Laetitia Ramolino.
     One of our favourite ways of spending Sunday was to
take Hans Faesch by a morning train to Gravesend and
walk to Gadshill, stopping on the way for a glass of beer
at a certain public-house. The landlady was one of those
who enjoy bad health, but the precise nature of her com
plaint was obscure. She was always well enough to attend
to us personally,
inquiring            and Butler
            sympathetically         usedsymptoms.
                              after her   to make a point of /'
     " I trust, ma'am, you are feeling better ? " inquired he
one Sunday in what was almost the professional bed-side
manner.
     " Oh, sir, I am a great sufferer," replied the landlady.
     " Are you sleeping fairly well ? "
     " Yes, thank you, sir."
     " Is your appetite pretty good i "
     " Yes, thank you, sir."

        1 66                          EGGS                             xxxi
  it93       " You do not suffer from palpitations ? "
Aet. 57         No, sir,
             " Are               ?"
                     yourthank you."
             Here the inquiries became so particular and intimate
        that Hans, who already had nearly disgraced himself, had
        to be bundled out into the road as quickly as possible.
             At Gadshill, the scene of one of FalstafFs classic ex
        ploits, just as Mount Eryx is the scene of the classic
        events in the Odyssey, we had lunch and walked on to a
        neighbouring station from which we returned to London.
              Another of our walks was to Harrow Weald, where
        there was a public-house kept by two old ladies and their
        niece, and the niece resembled the portraits of Queen
        Elizabeth. Butler often had his satchel full of new-laid
        eggs which he had bought at some farm-house on the
        way. One day as he was saying good-bye to the old
        ladies and Queen Elizabeth, afraid of crushing his eggs in
        the narrow passage, he said :
              " I must be careful as I go out ; you know, I feel like
        a woman in the family way."
              " Get along with you," replied one of the old ladies in
        a state of high delight ; " what do you know about such
        things?"
              On the 25th September he told me in a letter that
        through Russell Cooke (his solicitor) he had sent a copy
        of an article he had written for his friends at Aci Reale to
        Mr. Gladstone. " He won't look at it, still I thought
        it better to send it."
                              Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
             10 Oct. 1893 — Thank you for your encouraging letter.
        There are ten more books to do. I have gone through them
        again during my summer outing and am now copying them out
        fair, for I have hacked the original MS. about.
             I hope you feel that, lovely and brilliant as it is, it is the
        hand of a delightful woman and not of a man that is holding the
        pen. It may be only my fancy but I seem to see this in every
        page. It does not matter where one opens it, I always feel it.
        I don't think any of the remaining books are less interesting
        than the two you have just had. Show these wherever you like j

xxxi                    PICKPOCKETS                             167
and, any day next week that you like to name, bring Merric to 1893
tea and I shall then have two more books ready for you.              Aet- 57
    The Authors' Syndicate people cannot get a publisher to
undertake my translation. I am in no hurry, for I do not want
to take any steps myself just now—not in fact till the MS. is
quite completed.
                      Alfred to H. F. Jones.
    16 Oct. 1893—I am very sorry to have to tell you that the
Governor was robbed of his watch-chain on Saturday night, about
10, in Fetter Lane by one of those prigs that hang about the
Lane mostly outside the Busy Bees. The thief put his arms
around the poor Gov'-, snatched his chain which broke at the
swivel, thereby leaving the watch in his pocket, and then bolted.
Of course the Govr- could not follow him, so the blackguard got
away. It gave the Govr- a dreadful scare, but I am by his side
to comfort him and cheer him and pull him through.
    I shall be very pleased to have the honour of meeting you on
Thursday if you let me know the time you arrive at Charing X.
     Rockstro had been robbed a short time before in full
daylight in Albemarle Street, or one of those streets going
north from Piccadilly. I told him about Butler's loss
and he wrote : " What a shame to rob dear old Butler !
My chain broke also and saved my watch in exacdy the
same way."
     Butler wrote to The Times a letter headed " Robbery
in the Streets " and signed " A Victim," but nothing
came of it. There is a word of Alfred's in the first of
the following chain of letters to Mrs. Bovill—"stresses."
He meant " tresses," having been told that Mrs. Bovill
was undergoing some treatment for her hair. My being
" good for nothing " means that I had been or was ill.
" La Musa " is the name of the picture which was used
as the frontispiece of The Authoress.
                      Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
    20 Nov. 1893—^es5 please> I wiU call f°r tne 8 books on
Wednesday at 4.30, but I must be home early as Jones is very
good for nothing and I shall want to get up to him as soon as I can.
    I am getting the whole thing together and mean trying
a literary agent—true, the Authors' Society man was a literary
agent and he could do nothing, but I will try another.

        1 68                          ALFRED                             XXXI
 189358 fJe Enclosed
Aet.                    all about
             told Jonesfrom   Alfredyour
                                     please
                                         "poor
                                            keep stresses" as on
                                                  till I come    Wednesday.
                                                              he called them.
        About La Musa the dialogue after you were gone was :
             " You know, Sir, I knew you had another copy and I did
        not know any one worthier to have it than Mrs. Bovill : I
        thought if I brought it out while she was there you would say
        she was to have it, so I showed it to her"—so you see it is
        Alfred's little attention not mine, but he was a little uneasy
        about having said "female," till I reassured him and said I felt
        sure you would overlook it this time if it did not occur again.
             So glad you are satisfied with the last 4 books.
                                Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
             9 Dec. 1893—I think you will be rather expecting a call
        from me to-morrow afternoon to which I was myself looking
        forward, but on my return on Thursday I found Alfred in bed
        with severe rheumatism and cold. I have sent the man who
        attends on Jones [Dr. GreatRex] and who, also, by the way,
        was a protege, more or less, of old Dr. Butler's and he says that
        Alfred must not get up before Tuesday next, and then must not
        stir out for a week after leaving his bed. To keep such a parched
        pea as Alfred in tolerable obedience will be no easy matter, but at
        present he is too much bowled over to want to get up. Therefore
        on my return from my walk to-morrow, instead of getting out at
        Portland Road, I shall do so at King's Cross and go and sit with
        Alfred. He is well looked after, I assure you, and I am not in
        the least uneasy about him, only it is a time when he will expect
        that due attention should be shown him.
             Besides though the doctor vows that there is no influenza
        about it, I have my suspicions ; please consider, then, that I have
        stolen a pair of socks, or some sausages, or at any rate am under
        a social cloud till the patient requires less attention and we know
        better what the mischief precisely is.
             P.S.—I shan't be able to smoke at Alfred's.
                                Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
             17 Dec. 1893—I will come and see you, please, at 4.30
        to-morrow. Alfred is much better and was allowed out for half
        an hour to-day ; I am no longer uneasy about him, provided he
        will be moderately prudent.
             About cigarettes. There is no house in which a determined

xxxi                       EREWHON                             169
smoker cannot smoke without being found out. If you put your 1J93
head well near the chimney and send the smoke well up it, it can Act. 58
be done quite safely. I do not mean to say it is nice, but it is
much better than nothing. If I found myself absolutely precluded
from this (which however can hardly be) I should eat the
cigarette, or chew it at any rate ; there is a great deal to be said
for chewing.
      Butler's interest in New Zealand had not ceased.
Besides receiving letters from the colony he had visits
from one or other of his friends when they happened
to come to the old country. Sir Julius and Lady von
Haast came more than once, if I remember right, and he
dined with them. He wrote among others to Colonel
Alexander Lean, who is mentioned (ante, I. 103) as
having had a run on the Rakaia and who retired,
practised as an architect in Christchurch, and took a
prominent part in music. Butler told him about the
exorcism at Trapani ; Colonel Lean, in his reply, 22 nd
March 1893, supposed that it was the will of the patient
that efFected the cure and continued his letter :
     I trust N. Z. will never be hull-down with you. My younger
son is off next week a-mountaineering. I strongly advised him
to read afresh your incomparable descriptions in Errwhon. I
never tire of them myself. They remind me of a time of my
life when I lived, when we were all agog for "country," when I
found you at the club (at Woodman's) with a tell-tale rim above
your sun-and-glacier-burnt mask which told me of your explora
tions before your own narrative. You found a better thing than
"country"—you found Erewhon.
      In January 1913 I came across a book, New Zealand :
pictured by F. cif W. Wright ; described by the Hon.
 W. Pember Reeves, High Commissioner for New Zealand
 (London : Adam & Charles Black, 1908), wherein I
found this passage (pp. 162-3) :
     Butler's sheep-station, Mesopotamia by name, lay among the
alps of Canterbury and the satirist himself did some exploring
work in his pastoral days, work concerning which I recall a story
told me by an old settler whom I will call the Sheriff. This
gentleman, meeting Butler one day in Christchurch in the early

         170                  COLONEL LEAN                            xxxi
 1893 sixties, noticed that his face and neck were burned to the colour
Act. 58 0f re(j chocolate.
            " Hullo, my friend," said he, " you have been among the
        snow ! "
             " Hush ! " answered Butler in an apprehensive whisper, and
        looking round the smoking-room nervously, "how do you know
        that?'?
            "By the colour of your face ; nothing more," was the
        reply.
            They talked a while and Butler presently admitted that he
        had been up to the dividing range and seen a great sight away
        beyond it.
            "I've found a hundred thousand acres of ' country,' " said he.
        "Naturally I wish you to keep this quiet till I have proved it
        and applied to the Government for a pastoral license."
            "Well, I congratulate you," said the Sheriff. "If it will
        carry sheep you've made your fortune, that's all."
             But he intimated his doubts as to whether the blue expanse
        seen from far off could be grass country. And indeed when next
        they met the latter shook his head ruefully :
            " You were quite right ; it was all bush."
            I have often wondered whether that experience was the basis
        of the passage that tells of the thrilling discovery of Erewhon
        beyond the pass guarded by the great images.
             I wrote to Mr. Pember Reeves reminding him of this
        passage, telling him I was writing Butler's Life, and
        asking whether the Sheriff was not Colonel Lean. In his
        reply (25th January 19 13) he wrote :
            You have hit it ! It was the late Colonel Alexander Lean,
        Registrar and Sheriff of the Supreme Court in Christchurch.
        Colonel Lean described Butler's appearance. It was not only
        his neck that was burnt chocolate red, but his face right up to
        the line on his forehead marked by his hat.
             The early chapters of Erewhon are a wonderfully vivid descrip
        tion of the general features and atmosphere of the Canterbury
        Alps. Of course the height and distances have been exaggerated.
              Colonel Lean wrote Butler a further letter on 16th
        May 1893, from which this is an extract :
             The evening after I wrote you last, there was a discussion at
         my table among some young fellows who proposed getting to the
        top of Mount Arrowsmith (if you know the mountain by such

xxx«            THE HUMBLE AND MEEK                               171
a name). The question was your route to Erewhon. You 1893
would, I fancy, have been interested at seeing the second A«. 58
generation with your book before them, keen on identifying
the points of that celebrated journey which has now immortalised
you, for you will be identified with this country as long as it lives.
                        Butler to Colonel Lean.
                                                      DlC. I2» 1893.
     Dear Colonel Lean—I have let your very kind and enter
taining letter of the 4th of September remain too long unanswered ;
pray forgive me ; the days slip by faster than I can count them.
What a social cataclysm that crash must have been ; but, as you
have observed, it must have had its comic side. Let them be
meek in the day of their victory ; they will not be so, but their
turn will come, if they are not. I cannot resist copying the
speech of Ulysses to Amphinomus from the eighteenth book of
the Odyssey [124-15 1 ] which will serve at once to show the lines
on which I have laid my translation and also how little the
world has changed.
      Everyone has been bullying Ulysses—who, by the way, does
rather keep on asking for it—and Amphinomus gives him some
bread and meat. Then Ulysses says :
     " Amphinomus, you seem to be a man of no mean under
standing, as indeed you may well be seeing whose son you are.
 I have heard your father well spoken of; he is Nisus of
Dulichium, a man both brave and wealthy ; they tell me you
are his son and you appear to be a considerable person. Listen,
 therefore, and take heed to what I am saying.
      "Man is the very vainest of all God's creatures that live and
 move upon the earth ; for as long as heaven vouchsafes him
 health and strength he thinks that he shall come to no harm
 hereafter ; and even when the blessed gods bring sorrow upon
 him, he bears it as he needs must and makes the best of it ; for
 God Almighty gives men their daily minds day by day. I know
 all about it ; I was a rich man myself once, and did much wrong
 in the stubbornness of my pride and in the confidence that my
 father and brothers would support me. Therefore, let a man
 fear God in all things always and take the good that heaven may
 see fit to send him without vainglory."
      Is it not fine f not very profound, true ; and yet what can be
more profoundly true ? It is the old story of putting down the
mighty from their seat, etc. ; but after all it doesn't come to
much, for the humble and meek do get so confoundedly cocky in
such a little time that it is much as though the mighty had not

         172                 THE UNIVERSITIES                          m>
 1893 been put down at all. For my own part I confess my sympathies
Act. 58 are rather with the mighty. I am afraid of liberalism—or at
        any rate of the people who call themselves liberal ; they flirt
        with radicals who flirt with socialists who flirt with anarchists
        who do something a deal more than flirt with dynamite. Well,
        at any rate the new rulers of society in Christchurch had better
        look out.
             I went to Sicily again last summer and had a delightful time
        notwithstanding the intense heat and a good deal of quasi-
        dysentery, but it does not seem to have done me any harm. I
        found out one or two mistakes in my theory the correction of
        which has improved it very much. Nothing has ever interested
        me (except, of course, Handel) so much as this Odyssey business
        has done ; it is far the finest piece of good fortune that ever
        happened to me, and I find it all the sweeter for the strong
        displeasure which it has aroused in academic circles. This, I
        know, is not righteous, but when the righteous man turneth
        away from the righteousness which he hath committed and doeth
        that which is a little unlawful and wrong he will generally be
        found to have gained in savoir faire what he has lost in holiness.
             These Oxford and Cambridge people have treated me de
         haut en bas so long and so inexorably (no doubt they are quite
         right, but they must not expect me to say so to them) that now I
         feel I have got their heads in Chancery as far as the Odyssey is
         concerned, do you think / am going to remember the advice to
         Amphinomus which I quoted at the beginning of this letter ?
         No ; I will have my punch at them before I let them out.
         Probably I shall do nothing of the kind, but it refreshes me to
         think I will.
              If you knew the insolence of these people, and the way in
         which alike in literature and science they keep on throwing dust
         in our eyes under the pretence of helping us to see things more
         clearly, being all the time bent on nothing but swagger and the
         rolling of their own logs, you would understand better the
         contempt and dislike I feel for them—I mean for the more noisy
         and for those who are most in evidence. Among my grand
         father's letters I found one from Dr. Parr in which he says " the
         plain truth is that the Church and both the Universities are
         corrupt to the very root. Your grandchildren will be eye
         witnesses of the mischief. I have lived and, happily, my head
         will be under the sod when the storm bursts." This was written
         in 1822 and the storm has not burst, nor does it seem likely to
         burst yet awhile. So much the better ; let us stave it off as long
         as we can, and nothing will stave it off" more than the creation
         of a strong outside public opinion over which the dons and friars
         shall feel that they have no influence till they show that they

xxxi                      FORTUNE'S GIFTS                                      173
deserve it. But rotten to the root they assuredly are now to 1893
the full as much as they were in 1822.                                                Act. 58
      By the way my Life and Memoirs of Dr. Butler has stood
lamentably on one side for some months. During my holiday,
in railway stations, in trains, at every odd moment I revised my
translation of the second twelve books of the Odyssey ; on my
return at the end of September I copied these twelve books
anew and found they had thrown so much new light on the first
twelve that these wanted no little revision also. I have another
ten days' work to do on them, and then I can return to Dr.
Butler whose correspondence I have found fascinating—so clear,
so strong, so laborious, so sensible and, above all, so kind and
considerate that I really know of no collection of letters that I
find more charming. And then the people who wrote to him
did, some of them, write such lovely stuff. Here, for example, is
a sentence :
       "Sans interest, sans patron, sans everything that makes
a man no-man, I left my cradle to swagger through the wilder
ness of life, gathering crab-apples by the way and munching
 them on the thorn -stuffed stool of repentance." Why, it is
Shakespearean.1
       But how could I help it ? When Fortune threw such a prize
as the bringing back the Odyssey and its writer to their own home
 and people, what man with one spark of literary enthusiasm could
 refrain from at once putting all else on one side ? I have seldom
 felt more profoundly moved than when I brought Tabachetti
 back to Dinant in Belgium, where his very name was unknown,
 and restored that Titan to his home after an absence of 300 years
 [Ex Voto\ ; but that was a little thing in comparison with this.
       Does it occur to you that there may be a little presumption in
all this ? I assure you it does so to me ; but my pen has run
away with me and I reckon you have taken the length of my
 foot before now.
       Veel * has not written and will not write, so I shall have a
 correspondent the less and, believe me, my correspondence is
heavy especially for Italy and Sicily. By the way, in Sicily this
summer I saw the ruins of Selinunte—columns in every flute
 of which a man can stand ! When London goes to rack we
 shall leave nothing like it.
       I don't know whether you like nonsense verses ; I. don't know
 that I do much myself; but something made me write one or
two the other day :
     1 The Rev. S. Tillbrook to Dr. Butler, 21st April 18 17, Life and Letter1 of Dr.
Butler, I. 127.
     1 Colborne-Veel, Editor of The Press, N.Z., while Butler was writing in that
 paper.

         i74                 THE LOST CHORD                            xx«
 ig93                  There was a young lady named Ford
Act. 5S                Who kept trying to find the Lost Chord,
                         So she banged the notes down
                         Till she roused the whole town,
                       And when she had found it—O Lord !
            I suppose you know Sullivan's song " The Lost Chord."
        Believe me, with all kindest wishes for the new year in which
        this will reach you, Yours very truly,                S. Butler.


\
 i'
 V-
  L
  J

                     CHAPTER XXXII
                              1894
            THE COUNTRY OF THE ODTSSET
The following extract is from the Life and Letters of Dr. ij9+
MandeU Creighton by his wife (II. 83).                            Aet- 5*
    The Bishop had been reading Mr. Samuel Butler's enchanting
book Alps and Sanctuaries and determined to visit some of the
places there described. We divided our time between the Italian
lakes and the lower slopes of the Alps and explored many
mountain sanctuaries. ... As a result of this journey the Bishop
got to know Mr. S. Butler. He wrote to tell him the pleasure
his books had given us and asked him to visit us. After this he
came frequently and the Bishop was much attracted by his original
mind and stores of out-of-the-way knowledge.
     Dr. Creighton was at this time Bishop of Peter
borough ; he was translated to London in 1897. His
first step in getting to know Butler was taken in 1893.
He wrote to Martin, a photographer in Bream's Buildings,
Chancery Lane, for particulars of the illustrations to Ex
Voto, which, according to an advertisement in that book,
Martin was ready to supply. Martin, however, having
retired from the business, handed the letter to Butler,
who replied to the bishop that he was about to start for
Sicily, but that, in his absence, Alfred would be pleased to
print any photographs that might be wanted.
              The Bishop of Peterborough to Butler.
                                    The Palace, Peterborough,
                                            11 July 1893.
    Dear Sir—I have just received your letter, and hasten to
thank you for it. I will deal with your clerk as you permit me
to do.
                               "75

        i76               A CRUMB OF TOBACCO                         xxxn
  tSai      But I cannot lose the opportunity which your kind letter
Act. 5S offers me of expressing a hope that, after you return home, it
        may be possible for us to meet and have a little talk. I find
        myself on many points relating to art and literature — and to
        Italy, which may rank as a subject by itself—in agreement with
        you ; and it would be a great pleasure to me to compare notes.
        Anyhow you will pardon the suggestion.—Yours very faithfully,
                                                       M. Petriburg :
             No doubt Butler made a suitable reply, but he did not
        keep a copy. I have a recollection that the bishop called
        upon him in Clifford's Inn, but it may be that the visit
        was later. The next thing I find is in a letter from
        Butler to me of 30th December 1893 :
            What do you think ? The Bishop of Peterborough has
        written and asked me to spend from Saturday to Monday (Jan.
        13-15). What a Sunday I shall have, to be sure! Of course I
        must go.
             The conclusion that " of course " he must go was not
        arrived at without consideration, as will appear from the
        following note reproduced from The Note-Books of Samuel
        Butler ( 1 9 1 2).
             Dr. Mandell Creighton & Mr. W. S. Rockstro
            The first time that Dr. Creighton asked me to come down
        to Peterborough, in 1 894, before he became Bishop of London, I
        was a little doubtful whether to go or not. As usual, I consulted
        my good clerk, Alfred, who said :
            " Let me have a look at his letter, Sir."
            I gave him the letter, and he said :
            " I see, Sir, there is a crumb of tobacco in it ; I think you
        may go."
            I went and enjoyed myself very much. I should like to add
        that there are very few men who have ever impressed me so
        profoundly and so favourably as Dr. Creighton. I have often
        seen him since, both at Peterborough and at Fulham, and like
        and admire him most cordially.
            I paid my first visit to Peterborough at a time when that
        learned musician and incomparable teacher, Mr. W. S. Rockstro,
        was giving me lessons in medieval counterpoint ; so I particularly
        noticed the music at divine service. The hymns were very silly,
        and of the usual Gounod-Barnby character. Their numbers were

                        "IS IT CUT?"                             177
posted up in a frame and I saw there were to be five, so I called 1894
the first Farringdon Street, the second King's Cross, the third Aet- 58
Gower Street, the fourth Portland Road, and the fifth Baiter
Street, those being stations on my way to Rickmansworth, where
I frequently go for a walk in the country.
     In his private chapel at night the bishop began his verse of
the psalms always well before we had done the response to the
preceding verse. It reminded me of what Rockstro had said a
few weeks earlier to the effect that a point of imitation was
always more effective if introduced before the other voices had
finished. I told Rockstro about it and said that the bishop's
instinct had guided him correctly—certainly I found his method
more satisfactory than if he had waited till we had finished.
Rockstro smiled, and knowing that I was at the time forbidden
to work said :
     " Satan finds some mischief still for idle brains to do."
     Talking of Rockstro, he scolded me once and said he wondered
how I could have done such a thing as to call Handel " one of
the greatest of all musicians," referring to the great chords in
Erewhon. I said that if he would look again at the passage he
would find I had said not that Handel was " one of the greatest "
but that he was "the greatest of all musicians," on which he
apologised.
      The foregoing Note was one of those which were pub
lished in The New Quarterly before the Note-Books (19 12)
appeared ; Mrs. Grosvenor did not see those selections
until I lent her my copy some time afterwards. She
then wrote to me, 31st December 191 1 :
     The Notes are delightful. By the way I can add to one.
When Mr. Butler came to tell me he was going to stay with Dr.
Creighton, he told me that Alfred had decided he might go, on
finding the little flake of tobacco in the letter. Then he asked
me if I would lend him a prayer-book as he thought the bishop's
man ought to find one in his portmanteau when he unpacked, the
visit being from a Saturday to Monday. I fetched one and as I
handed it to him he said :
     « Is it cut ? "
      Mrs. Creighton, in giving me permission to print the
bishop's letter (ante, pp. 175-6) and also another letter
from him (post, pp. 315-16) suggested my asking her son,
the Rev. Cuthbert Creighton, if he had any reminiscences
of Butler's visits to the Palace at Peterborough, and after-
      VOL. II                                                  N

      178             AN ECCENTRIC VISITOR                          xxx.i
1894 wards to Fulham. I give his reply here because it seems
      to me interesting
et*s Peterborough      immediately
                             to read after
                                       his Butler's
                                           account own     account.
                                                      of this   visit to
                    Reminiscences of Samuel Butler                     ^
                                      BY
                        The Rev. Cuthbert Creighton
          Mr. Festing Jones has kindly asked me to contribute my
     reminiscences of Samuel Butler, and, in attempting to do so, I
     fully recognise that the only interest they can have for anyone
     but myself is to add one more testimony to a feature of his
     character which must already be clear to all who knew him or
     who have read his writings with discernment. I mean that
     kindly and sympathetic interest which he was always ready to
     take in any of his fellow creatures, the condition of which was
     merely that they should be ready to invite and respond to his
     friendliness, and which he showed as readily, perhaps even more
     readily, to an Italian peasant or (as in my case) to an English
     schoolboy as to those with whom it might naturally have been
     considered that he had more in common.
          I made Butler's acquaintance on the occasion of his visit
     to my father at Peterborough in 1894 when I was 18 years
     old. The circumstances of this visit are described by Butler in
     an amusing note published in the Note-Books. My father, to
     whom Putler was then unknown except as the author of Ex Vato
     and Alps and Sanctuaries, had asked him to come and stay, as a
     result of the pleasure he had taken in these books and in a recent
     visit to some of the places described in them. I remember my
     father telling us children that an unknown and probably rather
     eccentric visitor was coming to stay who, he had been warned,
     held cranky views on certain points and especially on Darwinism,
      which made it most desirable to prevent the conversation approach
      ing any of these subjects, and whom there were some grounds
     for suspecting of an antipathy to bishops. It is interesting to
      recall this now as showing the view that was commonly held
      then of Butler as a scientific writer. This announcement of
      course stimulated our imagination, and I pictured to myself a
      formidable-looking man, with a loud voice and a brow-beating
     manner, who would have to be humoured and prevented from
      becoming controversial.
          A greater contrast to the real Butler it would have been
      difficult to conceive, and this threw into all the stronger relief
      the modest courtliness and gentleness, the simple dignity and

 «xii                    AT FULHAM PALACE                                              179
 complete absence of anything that could be considered alarming 1*94
 or formidable, which struck me at once when Butler entered the Aet- 5'
 drawing-room before dinner, and which made me feel no diffidence
or hesitation in approaching or entering into conversation with
him.
      He had brought down with him his photographs of Varallo
and the Sacro Monte which he showed to us and talked about
after dinner. The photographs were mounted in albums with
the titles fully and neatly written underneath. I was struck by
the repetition of the name Alfred, thus : " View of the                             , with
Alfred," so at length I ventured to ask :
      "Who is Alfred?"
      Butler at once told us all about Alfred, how he had travelled
with him on this occasion and mounted his photographs for him,
and how invaluable he was to him. As an instance of this he
told, to our great amusement, the story of the crumb of tobacco
in the letter, as related in the Note-Books.
      My eldest sister sang one or two German and Italian songs,
which gave Butler occasion to speak about music and, either on
this or on some subsequent occasion, he gave her a copy of
Narcissus and other music, and showed a kindly and appreciative
interest in her singing. When my father took him away to his
study later on, he said good-night to us all and left the room,
walking backwards, smiling and bowing to the company in the
quaint old-fashioned way which I understand was his habit on
such occasions.
      I think this was the only time Butler stayed with my father
at Peterborough,1 but a little later on he was a frequent visitor
at Fulham, when he would come down to tea on a Sunday
afternoon for a talk with my father. I am afraid I can remember
nothing to record of these conversations at which, however, I
was always, as far as possible, an interested listener and, somehow,
there grew up in my mind a feeling of rather special friendliness
between myself and Butler whose manner was always such as to
put me completely at my ease and to invite my confidence. I
used to make a point of accompanying him through the garden
to Putney Bridge station when he went away. On one occasion
when I enquired as usual after Alfred, to whom and to whose
services to him Butler would frequently refer, Butler replied :
     " Unfortunately Alfred has been taking a holiday and I have
been terribly at a loss without him. The other day a dreadful
thing happened. I had to go down to Shrewsbury to be present
at the unveiling of a memorial to my grandfather and I thought
I ought to have a new suit of clothes in honour of the occasion.
  1 Butler paid certainly one other visit to Peterborough, in January 1895 (pott, p. zoo).

         180                      SAINTLINESS                          xxxn
  1894 So I got what seemed suitable and went to Shrewsbury. But
Aet. 58 when I came back in the evening my laundress exclaimed in
        horror :
             "'Lor' ! Mr. Butler, you've never been and gone to Shrewsbury
        in that coat and them trousers ! '
             " And then I saw that I had been to Shrewsbury in my new
        coat but an old pair of trousers. Well now, you see, if Alfred
        had been there, that could never have happened."
            I mention these somewhat trivial details in the hope of giving
        some idea of Butler in his relations with young people, and of
        the way in which his kindliness and simple courtesy evoked from
        them a ready response. I had by this time read and heard
        enough of Butler to recognise that he was a man of remarkable
        originality and penetration, intellectually formidable and even
        ruthless, but I was never in the least inclined to be alarmed by
        him j I felt that he was always ready to be interested in one and
        to meet one on common ground, and that without any suspicion
        of condescension on his part, or of the feeling that he was
        bringing himself down to one's level, which it is rare for anyone
        to be so completely free from as was Butler in his dealings with
        his intellectual or social inferiors.
             To have known Butler, even to such a limited extent as I
        did, has meant much to me. For now when I read his writings,
        besides the brilliant thinker and unsparing critic whom none can
        fail to find in them, I have before me also the picture of one
        who was above all things, and to an unusual degree, kindly,
        courteous, considerate and sympathetic in his personal relations.
        I cannot feel at all sure that I should have had the discrimination
        to discern in the writer of The Way of All Flesh and the Note-
        Books the man as I was privileged to know him. But with that
        knowledge I can now see shining, or perhaps I might rather say
        twinkling, through his pages the personality of a man of rare
        loveable character, one who, though this may sound an unexpected
        note on which to end and though the idea would have brought
        an incredulous smile to his lips, always seems to me to have had
        in him something of what I conceive to be saintliness.
                                                       C. Creighton.
                                                         March zznd, 1914.
              In February 1894 the spire of St. Mary's Church,
        Shrewsbury, was blown down. Butler " sent them £10—
        being about the earliest subscriber. People said I ought
        to have given more. Perhaps I ought, but it does not
        matter."

 xxxn          "CAPPERI, NON CAPRE"                            181
     Soon afterwards, being at Shrewsbury, he went to the 189+
church and the clerk showed him the ruins of the nave.              "" s*
    " Now, Sir," said the clerk, " you go to any of these famous
dynamite people and ask them to throw you down that spire so
clean on the middle of the roof as that is done. There isn't one
of them as could do it. Lord bless you, Sir, it's the hand."
    And so he went on, fully convinced that the Almighty had
himself personally conducted, as it were, the spire into the middle
of the nave.
    Mr. Poyntz, the rector, preached saying or suggesting that
the spire was thrown down because the Shrewsbury people were
organising a memorial to Darwin.
     On 20th July Butler went alone to Casale, whence he
wrote to me that the Italian translation of Ex Voto was at
last published. He went from Casale to Rome and Naples,
then by steamer to Messina and down to Aci Reale to
consult with Mario Puglisi and his friends there about the
articles he was writing for their magazine.
     One day Mario took him to the Scogli de' Ciclopi,
which Giovanni Platania in the train in 1892 had offered
to him as the rocks hurled by Polyphemus. The rocks
are also considered by some writers to include the island
on which Ulysses and his men hunted the goats {Od. ix.
152). They were, of course, on the wrong side of Sicily
for Butler who had already located the goat island on the
west {The Authoress, p. 43), where he also located the
rocks that were hurled ; but he thought he ought to con
sider the claims of the Scogli de' Ciclopi. He and Mario
landed on the largest island and looked about for evidence.
There was vegetation, but no trace of goats, and Butler
said to Mario :
     " Qui vedo capperi, non capre " (" Here I see capers,
not goats ").
    So the Scogli de' Ciclopi were dismissed.
     They went to spend a day at a country house belonging
to Mario on the slopes of Etna. The house had been
shut up empty for some weeks, and at the moment of
turning the key in the lock Mario was aware of a move
ment—something very slight, but he recognised it for
what it was and said to Butler :

         1 82                AN EARTHQUAKE                           xxxn
 1894         " That was an earthquake."
Act. 51       Etna was in eruption at the time, and as they came
        along they had been discussing earthquakes, so Butler may
        be excused for having thought that Mario was trying to
         make fun of him. He felt himself all over, back and
        front, legs and arms, and replied :
              " I don't think so, there is nothing broken."
              The next day there was a more decided shock in the
        same neighbourhood, and Butler, who had returned to
         Catania, saw an account of it in the papers. He wrote to
         Mario inquiring whether anything had been broken the
        second time, and saying he supposed that, in spite of his
         having felt nothing, there really must have been an earth
        quake at the country house. After he left Catania he
        heard that the shocks became slightly more serious, and
         was disappointed to know that he had missed them. He
         was always interested in natural phenomena, but I should
         have thought he had had enough of earthquakes ; there
        was the shock when he was at school at Shrewsbury ; in
        New Zealand they are so frequent that he must have felt
        several ; and there was the one in Callao harbour when he
         was on his way back.            Perhaps these were all slight
        shocks. I think that, if he had lived to see the ruins of
         Messina after the disaster of 1908, he would not have
         wanted any more earthquakes.
                               Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
                                                 Grand Hotel, Aci Reale.
             4 Aug. 1894—Alfred writes me that you have been so kind as
        to send him a teapot with which he is evidently very much
        pleased ; he tells me he has written to thank you. I know what
        he will have said. It is most strange that such a consummate
        letter -writer as he sometimes shows himself to be should break
        down so completely as he does when he has to make a set com
        position. When I have been giving him his Whitsun outing I
        have seen the letters sometimes that he has written to the young
        woman whose property he now is, and was always amused to see
        how perfectly correct and conventional (I mean of course how
        stupid) they were.
             The happy event took place on Sunday the 29th. There is a
        kind of excellent red champagne, at once strong, tasty and of a

xxxii              ALFRED'S WEDDING                            183
good flavour, that grows on the slopes of Etna, under the shadow 189+
of which mountain I am now writing. So I made Alfred's Aet. 58
wedding an excuse for having a bottle to drink his and his bride's
good health, and drank as nearly as much as was good for me—1
mean of course that I got as nearly tipsy as I ever think it worth
while to get.
     On the day after the wedding Alfred himself wrote to me as
follows :
     "The wedding went ofFvery nicely and everybody said how
nice we looked. I was under a top hat and felt very strange I
can assure you. It was a lovely morning. We all met at church
at 9.15, and when we came out got into a hansom cab to escape
as much as possible the storm of rice, whilst the others came home
on foot. Mr. King gave the lady away. It was a perfect success,
and not the slightest thing occurred to mar the day's enjoyment.
I am only sorry that you were not able to be present, but your
health was drunk by us all. Our party numbered 14. This
morning I am in very good form."
     Which means of course that everything went off" quite nicely.
     My object in being here is to put a long Italian article about
the Odyssey through the press. There are two good kind gentle
men here who edit a paper called La Rassegna, and they correct
my Italian and keep me straight ; but they seem to have no notion
of the value of time and I have been kept here a full week and
shall have another 3 or 4 days over work that should have been
done in two days easy. However I get on with the Iliad (I have
done 1000 lines since I left England) and if I was not here I
should only be somewhere else, but I shall get on to Trapani as
soon as ever I can.
     Etna is smoking a little, not much, but there was a sharp
little shock of an earthquake two days ago.
     Murray has got the MS. of Dr. Butler to consider, but I
have little idea that he will take it. If he does so it will be
a great thing, but, even though he does not, I feel pretty sure
that somebody else will.
     What a long stupid letter when all I had to say that was
worth saying is that it was very kind of you to give Alfred a
teapot. I am quite well, but very hot and badly mosquito-bitten.
      The happy couple left London for Boscombe, whence
Alfred wrote me the letter which follows. The reader
must settle in his own mind whether to class it as an
effort made in his capacity of " consummate letter-writer "
or as " a set composition." I do not think it " stupid."
 I like knowing how thoroughly the ardent young lovers

       i84             ALFRED'S HONEYMOON                           xxxu
 1894 enjoyed their solitude a deux, and with what enthusiasm
Aet-S* they looked forward to settling down together in their
       new London home.
                             Alfred to H. F. Jones.
                                  7 Tower Road, Boscombe, Bournemouth,
                                                Aug. 15M 1894.
           My dear Sir—I must apologise to you and ask your forgive
       ness for not answering your nice letter before this. I know you
       will forgive me. I am very pleased to hear you had a nice
       passage over, and was not ill. I trust you will get along all
       right, and will have a very pleasant holiday. I have forgotten
       Mr. Watt's address, but will send it to Mr. Larken as soon
       as I return to London. We return home on Saty- evening
       about 9.30. I had a letter from the Governor this morning.
       He is quite well and going on all right. They seem to badger
       him about with their "Article." He seemed to have got away
       only just in time from Acireale, when the earthquake happened.
       The Governor left about 14 hours before it happened. I am
       (and so are we all) glad he escaped it.
           My wife and myself are enjoying our holiday immensely.
       The weather this last week has been glorious. We are awfully sun
       burnt, in fact I am quite brown. We have had some very nice
       walks, and picked up a very nice couple, which makes it very
       pleasant and breaks the monotony of always being by our two
       selves. We have walked to Christchurch and Southbourne and
       enjoyed it much. There are a great number of people down
       here, especially Bank Holiday week. We leave here on Saturday
       evening at 5 and will have had 15 days at Boscombe, which
       ought to brace us up for the coming winter " of our discontent."
            I will now conclude with my very best love and the best of
       wishes and remain,—Yours very truly,
                                               Alfred Emery Cathie.
            P.S.—Mrs. Cathie sends her very kind regards to you and
        hopes you will return safe.
             Having broached the subject of Alfred's epistolary
        style, it may help the reader to appreciate Butler's
        criticism if I give here this letter received from him
        about six years previously.

xxxii                        AMBER                               185
                     Alfred to H. F. Jones.
                                    15 Clifford's Inn, London, E.C.   1894
                                              July 16th 1888.        Aet. 58
     Dear Sir—I was very pleased to hear from you and of your
safe arrival. I have been waiting until I had been to the Italian
Exhibition so as I could have something to tell you. I went
with Mr. Butler on Saturday and enjoyed myself immense. As
far as the Exhibition itself goes I do not think much of it ; the
other little [ ] was what I enjoyed, such as the Music in the
Gardens, also the Switchback Railway. I enticed Mr. Butler
to have a ride with me on it, which he did, but he said when he
came off ait was damnable." I soothed him by saying the
motion was ridiculous but the sensation was grand. He left me
about 4 o'clock and at 5 my companion met me and we spent
the rest of the time together. We went to the Coliseum to
witness " Rome under the Emperors " and thought it was very
good. I got home just after 1 1 o'clock after having spent a nice
long day. I hope you are having better weather than we are,
it is nothing but rain now. Hoping you are quite well and
begin to feel the benefit of your little trip,—Believe me to
remain yours truly,                                    A. Cathie.
      Butler went from Aci Reale to Castrogiovanni, the
 site of the ancient Enna where Proserpine was gathering
 flowers when Pluto carried her off. Here he stayed at
 the Trattoria Grande : " the salone is a modern theatre
 with boxes all round it and a stage at the end. In what
 should be the pit one dines." He hoped to find remains
 of Sican or of Pelasgic walls, but failed. In the museum,
 however, he saw some amber, taken from the neighbour
 ing river-bed, which interested him particularly, because
 amber is never mentioned in the Iliad, whereas in the
 Odyssey, a Sicilian poem, it occurs three times.
                               Amber
     In one piece of amber in the museum there was a whole
 willow-leaf, and in another a little snail-shell. . . . The odds
 against the preservation of that willow-leaf were heaven knows
 how many million to one, still it was preserved. On the other
 hand, the odds against no willow-leaf having been preserved, 1?
 there was any amber exuding in the neighbourhood, were also
 heaven knows how many million to one. So that squares it, and
 prevents our being compelled to accept the Christian miracles.

        1 86                   THE ISLANDS                            xxxu
 1S9+        From Castrogiovanni he passed through Palermo to
Aet 58 Trapani and, having heard that there were remains of
       walls in the island of Marettimo, determined to see
       them. This account of the excursion is condensed from
       his letters to me and his notes. The illustration at the
       opening of this chapter, " Trapani and the Islands," is
       not a success as a work of art ; for instance, I have not
       sufficiently detached the foreground, which is Mount
       Eryx, from the middle distance, which is Trapani. It
       is, however, intended less as a work of art than as a
       bird's-eye view of the course taken by Butler in his
       excursion to Marettimo. The town is seen jutting out
       into the sea. On the left are the salt-pans, the dots
       representing heaps of gathered salt covered with tiles to
       protect them from any possible thunderstorm.                    The
       harbour from which he started is shown between the salt
       pans and the town. Favognana is the island to the left ;
       Marettimo is the island that cuts the horizon lying " all
       highest up in the sea to the west " ; Levanzo is the
       island which hides Marettimo when you look out to sea
       from the level of Trapani.
                                   Marettimo
            About 10 p.m. on Tuesday 14th August I went on board the
       bi-weekly sailing post, a small cutter, a mere fisherman's boat,
       a tub that would make 6 or 7 knots an hour, perhaps 10 feet
       broad and 20 ft. long, with a slightly arched upper deck and
       beneath this a hold, about 4 feet high, filled with the properties
       of the captain, his son and another lad. The second of these
       boys had what I have not infrequently noticed among the young
       sailors of this neighbourhood, a singularly beautiful set of teeth,
       all white as ivory, strongly set and packed like peas in a pod.
            I looked into the hold where, among the hundred odd things
       that such a boat was sure to contain, was a mattress spread for
       me. I smelt the hold and shuddered. Many previous passengers
       to and from Marettimo must have suffered from the effects of
       the lumpy sea which the vento maestro raises. Cheese and.
       onions and rum, dirty clothes and barrels of pickled sardines,
       cockroaches and blackbeetles—the ghosts of all these things and
       the living presence of many more gave me pause and I preferred
       the lovely moonlight and the fresh breeze of the deck.

xxxn                     FAVOGNANA                             187
     The voyage ought to take 3 or 4 hours ; as we glided out of 189+
the harbour, it was like being in Venice and the other boats Aet- 5*
showed black in the sheen of the moon as we passed them.
Presently, however, the islands of Levanzo and Favognana
remaining still ahead of us, it appeared that no progress was being
made. The breeze went down and we tacked about with the
lights of Trapani still near, and at last there was not a breath.
The sails flapped while the boat rose and fell with the swell, the
yard creaked and we lay becalmed for hours during which the
moon set in the sea. I was dewy and salty but not un
comfortable— only bored. About 3 a.m. up sprang a breeze,
fairly strong ana dead against us. Tack, tack, tack (derive
"tack"), and then the sea rose rapidly and I was getting
splashed. There was nothing for it but to go down into the
hold ; this therefore I did, not without difficulty.
     I went below from 3.30 to 6.30 and then put my head out
of the opening through which I had crept, feeling sure that we
must be nearing Marettimo. Alas ! we had not yet reached
Favognana, and the sea was now not dangerous but roughish and
white-horsey. Presently the captain said he should not venture
further than Favognana and that unless he made it pretty soon he
should put back to Trapani. I said :
     " Do what you think best. I shall leave it to you. If you
think there is risk in going further, don't go."
     The end of it was that after 1 1 hours we did actually make
Favognana and here we stayed till evening when they hoped the
wind would shift round, but I didn't see why it should.
     So I landed about 9.30 a.m. and went to the inn (very decent)
had a substitute for a bath and am now writing this with the
very utmost difficulty in keeping awake, as you may imagine. At
noon I shall dine and then I will take two solid hours of sleep
after which, I doubt not, I shall be able to do my quantum of
Homer [translation of the Iliad'] which I brought with me in
case something should confine me.
     We started again from Favognana at 4.30 the next morning
and crept along, sometimes helping ourselves with a little rowing.
The swell, after the heavy weather, made any locomotion on the
boat difficult. Once we came upon some wicker fish-traps set
by a boat which we could see ahead of us, and in no time the
captain and the two boys turned a dozen nice live red mullets
flapping on to the deck. Before they were quite dead the captain
began to scale them and cut them through and then set about
cooking them. The boys playing with one another amused me
much ; they laughed when I told them that they were like
kittens while I was like an old cow. The monotony was further
relieved by our finding some nets and some more fish-traps which

         1 88                      VINCENZO                          xxxn
  189+ the captain knew to have been lost ; with some trouble we got
Aet. 58 them on board and in one of them there was the finest lobster I
        ever saw, quite two feet long from the tail to the end of the
        claws —such a brute ! and in another there was a cray-fish.
        Then the sun set, and nothing can be conceived more lovely ;
        but the heat and monotony were distressing and brought on a
        head-ache behind my right eye which has been with me ever
        since. At last, about 9 p.m. there sprang up a light breeze
        which presently freshened and ran us down to Marettimo in no
        time. Soon after dark on Thursday evening 16 August we
        landed, having taken in all 48 hours to go a distance of little
        more than 20 miles.
             I presented my letter to the brigadier who at once beat up
        the landlord and did his best for me. Ulysses himself was not a
        greater object of curiosity to the Phaeacians than I found myself
        to these people. Almost immediately the brigadier introduced
        me to a young man, Vincenzo, who knew my Odyssean theories
        and seemed much interested, so into his hands I was committed
        and at 8 this morning he came to fetch me.
             Vincenzo took me all over the place and showed me all I
        wanted to see. There are some remains of a very ancient
        civilization on the island, not many, but enough to leave no
        doubt that there had been such people ; I should say, however,
        that they belonged to an age long prior to the Odyssey, to one
        which, moreover, had become extinct when the Odyssey was
        written. The whole island, except where naturally protected by
        precipices, was surrounded by a wall which, though mainly
        destroyed to make other walls, can be traced wherever the island
        is accessible and was clearly a defensive wall. I am confident
        the island had no important civilization in the days of the
        Odyssey, but the fact of this wall is sure to have been known and
        I cannot doubt would impress the authoress of the poem. As
        she transferred Thersites's hump to Eurybates, so I strongly
        suspect that her wall running all round the island of Aeolus is
        in reality suggested by this wall.
             17 Aug. 1894—To-day I was to dine with the brigadier, a
        good little man, a smart little person of about 24, very good-
        natured and most anxious to be hospitable. He has two men
        under him, good creatures both of them, and at about 12 o'clock
        he came to fetch me. The barracks were as small and meagre
        as can be well conceived ; downstairs there was a small mess-
        room, kitchen and ripostiglio or cellar-larder. Upstairs was the
        brigadier's office-bedroom and the rooms of the two men. After
        a certain amount of waiting upstairs, one of the men announced
        that dinner was ready and we went down, all four of us dining at
        the same table. The three have to do everything for themselves,

xxxn                        LAND-FISH                               189
no servant being permitted. It transpired that they had cooked 1894
the dinner between the three of them. The cloth was very dirty Aet 5*
and, as they have no meat, no milk and very few eggs, it may be
imagined that, though they were doing their very best, the good
fellows could not do much.
     First we had chicken broth, very fair and not untasty. Then
came the chicken which had made the broth—such a poor little
drunken drab of a thing as it must have been. Then four huge
plates of maccaroni covered with tomatoes, mine being four times
as much as I could by any conceivable means manage to eat ; I
removed half at once and ate half the remainder. Then came
another chicken, own brother to the one that had made the
soup. Lastly came what I was told was the inside and entrails of
the two chickens together, i.e. their gizzards, livers and as much
as could be, by hook or crook, utilised of the remaining insides.
And the wine was black and strong with a taste of treacle and rum.
     They had been fortunate enough, said the second soldier, to
find some specimens of a kind of land-fish ; it is really a fish, but
still they find it on land ; he did not suppose we had it in England,
but it had a delicious flavour ; it seems to fill the whole stomach
with a divine and exquisite aroma that remains for several days ;
indeed, for a fortnight afterwards, when any little wind rises from
the stomach, you can still taste it. The description reminded me
all the time of the soothing herb which Helen put into the mixing
bowl in the fourth book of the Odyssey. But what to do I And
what, again, was this wonderful land-fish ?
     " You find it on walls and stones."
     " Oh," said I, " I have not seen any lizards on the island," for
I made sure that lizards were intended.
     " No," was the answer, "lizards are not good to eat, but these
are exquisite, we call them lumachi, and now I remember we
have the shells in the kitchen."
     " And here," interrupted the second soldier, triumphantly,
" they actually are," as he laid a dozen snail-shells on the table.
     I could have better eaten a worser meat. Had it been lizards I
could have eaten them and thanked heaven it was no worse. Had
it been stewed mice—yet could I bear that too, well, very well.
But snails ! I would as soon eat cockroaches and blackbeetles.
I thought of my uncle John and how his brothers, when he was a
boy, offered him sixpence if he would eat a cockroach. He mused
for a while :
       The we
     uThen       had twohe pears
             stomach,"           and two
                            murmured,   " will
                                           figs be theand
                                                 each     thepart."
                                                       worst  meal was
ended.
      They had a little, wild, live rabbit in the ripostiglio and they
showed me how the dog would catch it without hurting it.

         l9o                  LUCK AND CUNNING                              nm
 1894 I was then taken to the brigadier's room and the poor little man
Act. 58 gave me details as to the miseries of his life in Marettimo which
         I can well believe. For my own part I could not live there a
         twelvemonth. After this I was to photograph them, first in full
         dress, then in undress and then there was to be a friendly group
         which was to include the phlebotomist and the shoemaker—for all
        which see my photos, if, as I hope, they turn out all right. The
        phlebotomist is also barber and hair-dresser, but I do not think the
        people employ him very much.
             We got back to Trapani at 4 a.m. on Sunday 19 August,
        after an uncomfortable dawdling return voyage of 13 hours.
        At any rate it seemed to me quite worth while to go, and I am
        glad I went, but I have had a rough time varied, however, with
        episodes which will come in another Alps and Sanctuaries, if ever
        I get to one, and which I need hardly say I carefully note.
                                    Butler to Jones.
             19 August 1894—What with posting up the notes—which is
        the first thing—the translation of the Iliad (I have done Bks vii.
        viii. ix.), letters, photography, and visitors without ceasing, I have
        my work cut out. . . .
             Both Dudgeon and Pauli write as though they considered I
        had scored in Lord Salisbury's address to the British Association,
        but I really do not see that I do. Certainly Darwin gets blown
        upon for his natural selection but that is now little more than
        common form.
                                Dr. Dudgeon to Butler.
                                                     53 Montago Square, W.
                                                          gth August, 1894.
             Dear Mr. Butler—Lord Salisbury's presidential address at
        the B[ritish] Association] meeting must be "nuts" to you.
        Lord Salisbury, who may be considered a representative intelligent
        " man in the street," sees that " luck" won't do and that " cunning "
        must come in to explain evolution ; and this is just what you
        taught and what Darwin gnashed his teeth at you for doing. I
        don't know if you are still in town, but I could not help congratu
        lating you on this public adoption of your views. Of course
        Salisbury has not any idea of what the " cunning " really is—he
        seems to hint that it is theological—but it is enough for the
        present that natural selection " luck " is relegated to a back seat—
        the older Darwin's " cunning " will come to the fore presently.
             Lord Salisbury doesn't seem to have found out the fallacies of
        Lister or Pasteur yet, but the man in the street, however intelli
        gent, does not know everything.—Yours very truly,
                                                          R. E. Dudgeon.

 xxxii            RELIGION AND SCIENCE                             191
                       Butler to Dr. Dudgeon.
                                                 Trapani, Sicily.       1S94
                                                   August 20th, 1894.  Aet. 5S
     Dear Dr. Dudgeon—Your very kind note reached me here
yesterday on my return to this place from the island of Marettimo,
where there are some prehistoric remains which I wished to see.
     I read, or rather skimmed, Ld. Salisbury's speech and thought,
as you do, that he was quite awake to the fact that the Charles-
Darwinian natural selection is rubbish, but then the amount of
soft soap, etc. and the absence of anything like plain straight
forward outspokenness did, I confess, disgust me. The man
knows that Charles Darwin has messed and muddled the question
for many years ; that he mystified the public under the guise of
making things easier for it j that he very well knew he was
keeping things back from us which he knew himself, and which
he knew that it concerned us to know, but which he was not
going to tell us ; that he was unscrupulous in the means he used
if he wanted to get rid of a troublesome opponent ; that he
behaved towards his predecessors with a meanness which would be
incredible if alleged concerning anyone except himself ; all this is
known to Lord Salisbury and to the greater part of those who
listened to him. I confess, therefore, it is not without impatience
that I view the farce that is kept up between speaker and audience.
It not only serves no useful end, but it encourages and widens that
severance between science and sincerity which, as you and I know
so well, is already apparently impassable. If I see a man hanging
about the British Association at all, or indeed any of the learned
societies, I look upon him ipso facto with suspicion, and such
speeches as Lord Salisbury's confirm one in the opinion that I do
well to do so. What—well, I have said enough.
     I was very nearly caught in the Acireale earthquake ; the
first shock happened half an hour after I had left, the second and
most serious one about fourteen hours afterwards. My friends
tell me the distress and damage done are very great. I shall
return about the 20th of September and will call shortly
afterwards. I am quite well, but the heat is fearful—I can only
sleep by lying outside my bed close to a wide-open window and
letting the mosquitoes do exactly what they choose ; by this
means I get along all right. With kind regards,—Believe me,
Yours very truly,                                      S. Butler.
     P.S.—What is wanted is not to reconcile science and religion
—let them fight it out—but to reconcile science and common
modesty, accuracy, and straightforwardness which, so far as I can
see at present, have a very righteous quarrel with her for innumer
able insults she has heaped upon them.

       t92              " LEAGUES OF SICILY "                       xxxn
 1894        On 22nd August Butler went up Mount Eryx to stay
Aet-5* for a week with Conte Agostino Sieri Pepoli at his
       summer residence, Le Torri. Here were the ravens which
       had been attracted from the Ruccazzu dei Corvi. Some
       of them were half-tame and would eat out of one's hand ;
       they had had silver bells hung round their necks and
       would flit tinkling in and out of the Castle windows and
       perch upon the crazy wooden balconies. Butler brought
       back a snap-shot showing old Monsignore Di Marzo, one
       of his fellow-guests, asleep in a perilous chair upon one of
       the balconies " over the edge of a precipice of many
       hundred feet, backed by leagues upon leagues of Sicily."
       But he could not get the ravens into the photograph.
                             Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                           Monte Erich.
            26 August 1894—On Monday they have the Personaggi, i.e.
       people dressed up as the great personages of Holy Writ ; they
       make a Cavalcata Simbolica beginning at 10.30 p.m. and con
       tinuing all night—no doubt a continuation of some old rites of
       the Temple of Venus which, as you know, was here and very
       magnificent in former times. . . .
            I like the count, but he is a queer mixture of shrewdness and
       heaven knows what else. He has an imperfect lady here this
       year, lent to him by the marchese, but it is understood she is
       more for show than use. She is a very nice person and I should
       like her very much if she did not exhibit so decided a desire that
       I should take her back with me to London—an idea which makes
       my backbone curdle. Still she is exactly the person we want.
       Shall I bring her after all ?
            29 August 1894—I came down on foot from the Mountain
       under guidance of a contadino provided by the count. ... I was
       to be taken the short cuts and I was so taken. We were benighted
       half way and I seldom have had a more difficult and even perilous
       walk but, thanks to extreme care, no mishap occurred. Yes,
       Ulysses certainly did want a stick for that walk.
            It was a wonderful experience at the count's. The great
       event which I was staying to see was " I Personaggi " who made
       their progress on the night of Monday-Tuesday. They begin
       about 1 1 p.m. and progress slowly through all the narrow streets
       till 5.30 a.m. by which time the poor personages are nearly dead
        and often they faint away.

xxxii                 THE PERSONAGGI                               193
         I. Night, a man dressed as a woman, with a veil of black 1894
               net before his face, reclining in front of a background Aet. 58
               of clouds.
        II. Ashtaroth {ta. Venus) con seguito di Sacerdotesse.
               This was very good. Venus was exceedingly pretty ;
               she stood inside a huge open bivalve with a dear little
               cupid and two sweet little girls going before her.
       III. Baal.
       IV. Idolatry.
        V. L' Apoteosi, or Divine Honours paid to Man. This
               was personified by Julius Caesar, one of the finest-
               looking, best-built young fellows imaginable.
       VI. Aurora.
      VII. The Sun.
    VIII. Faith.
       IX. Christian Civilization.
        X. Eryx.
       XI. Charity.
     XII. Youth.
    And finally a triumphal car, in the form of a boat, on which
were a band of music and six little girl-singers, surmounted by a
copy of the Madonna di Custonaci. . . .
    Each of these figures was superbly dressed, with jewels in
some cases weighing ten pounds of gold and precious stones for a
single dress. Every gold ornament in the town and neighbouring
villages in possession of any family is lent and never a ring is
robbed. The arrangement of the jewels is made with consum
mate skill. I was taken round to see the personages in their own
houses before they started and they had picked the most repre
sentative they could find. The visits thus paid were as interest
ing as the procession itself. The whole thing was pagan with the
slightest varnish of Christianity ; all other such things I have
seen were Christian with a touch of paganism. The crowds, the
perfect spontaneity, indigenousness, and heartiness (not a priest in
the whole procession) made it a thing which I should be very
sorry to have missed. . . .
    I gave Donna Maria, the cook at the count's, an old lady of
my own age, 5 francs, when I went away, tipping the other
servants, of course, also ; the cook was the only one [of the
servants] who kissed me. The count kissed me too.
     He went from Trapani to Castelvetrano and recon
sidered the ruins of Selinunte. With several friends he
went to Poggio Reale to see some remains of walls near
by, on Monte Elimo, but could not make out much
     vol. 11                                                    o

         i94                  "NON NEVICA"                      xxxi.
 1894 except that they probably were on the site of some Sican-
Aet. 58 Xrojan-Phocaean city.
             He then went to Calatafimi, and one day Ingroja and
        his friends took him for an excursion of a few miles on
        horseback to Monte Inice, where there is a castle in which
         Charles V. stayed and where he hunted ; some one had
         written a book saying that there were prehistoric remains
        there, and Butler hoped to find something to help him.
        Either there were no remains or they were of no conse
        quence ; anyhow the excursion was very enjoyable. It
        was early in September—one of those days that in Sicily
        succeed each other all through the summer and early
        autumn, when there is no cloud in the sky and the land
        lies breathless under the heat. They had brought their
        lunch with them and were eating it in the shade.
        Presently Butler looked up critically in the direction
        of the sun and, with the little reiterated shake of the
             " which
        headHe   could
               Non   allnot
                    nevica
                         his"have
                             friends
                              (Thespoken
                                    snow
                                     remember,
                                          moreoff).
                                         keeps   seriously
                                                said,      if he had:
                                                      very solemnly
        been announcing some important discovery concerning
        the Temple of Segesta itself, and for a moment they
        were puzzled ; then they all laughed, and continued
        laughing about it for the rest of the day. He was as much
        surprised and pleased as any of them, for it was an old
        joke he had picked up years before in New Zealand and
        had used ofF and on ever since. With us it had grown
        so threadbare that we scarcely looked upon it as a joke
        any longer ; it had never, even in its best days, met with
        so great a success as on this occasion ; the fame of it
        spread through all the country round, and he became
        known, and is still spoken of, as the Englishman who
        had proved that the Odyssey was written by a woman
        at Trapani, and who had said, " Non nevica."
            While Butler was in Sicily I was abroad, and at Basel
        made the acquaintance of the Faesch family. Hans was
       still in London, but he wrote to his people to expect me,
       and I stayed with them a few days in his grandfather's
       house outside the town. I met Butler on his return, and
       we were together at Casale whence we went with the

  xxxii            SEEKING A PUBLISHER                         195
  Avvocato Negri for an excursion to Crea to see '894
  Tabachetti's work there. We also went to Rosignano, Aet58
  which is on the hills near Casale, and stayed with the
  painter Morbelli at his country house, and Butler made
  many photographs of the children in all sorts of engaging
  attitudes. We returned to London on 20th September.
                        Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
      Oct. 4, 1894—We have examined the outside of your house
  and saw such evidence of painters that we make sure you arc
 still at Chorley Wood, I hope enjoying yourself. I have been
  back the best part of a fortnight and go down next week to
 Shrewsbury to my sisters, after which I intend being a fixture
 for some time. I translated 6 more bks of the Iliad, but have
 not yet revised and copied them out. The Odyssey still on its
 rounds from publisher to publisher hitherto without result. Dr.
  Butler in like manner has started on his way—hitherto with no
 better success. I cannot think however but that sooner or later
 Mr. Watt will place both books for me, and in the meantime go
 on with the Iliad: Alfred seems quite contented and comfortable.
 I think he is all right. Jones brought a bad cold with him and
 has been a good deal out of sorts but is picking up and will be
 all right in a day or two. I have actually drawn a post-card out
 of old Gladstone re my second Italian pamphlet, published at the
 end of August. I sent it to Gladstone and have been rewarded
 with a post-card—in my opinion a very silly one. The Bishop
 of Peterborough has written very warmly about my theory and
says that he feels sure it will work its way in time. So am I
 but I want it to work its way immediately. I am to go down
there (I mean to Peterborough) in December.
     P.S.—I address to St. Andrew's Place in case you should
have come back since Sunday.
                       Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
     Oct. 25, 1894—Jones tells me you would like Alfred to come
to you either Tuesday or Wednesday. He will be delighted to
do so, and is only afraid that he will not be able to do what you
want " because " he " shall feel so nervous." I tell him he will
not feel nervous, and he will do what you want perfectly well.
I am rather cross to-day because I went to see Arthur Roberts
last night, and did not like it. I am haunted by a growing idea
that I am getting old and dull (not that I was ever much else)

         196                    ALFRED'S BABY                         xxxn
  189+ but surely either the fault is in me or else Arthur Roberts is a
Act. 59 g00d deal overrated.
             Jones tells me I am to have the pleasure of meeting you next
         Wednesday. Tant mieux.
             P.S.—I have been to see my doctor who tells me that there
        is nothing the matter with me except rather serious brain-fag. I
        am to do as nearly nothing as I can for some few weeks, and
        mean to take things very easy.
             Alfred was to help Mrs. Bovill to catalogue her
        books. The next letter was sent to Spain where she had
        gone for the winter.
                               Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
            Dec. 6, 1894 —Yours of Nov. 27 reached me a few days
        ago and was immediately retailed to Jones who will write and
        thank you on his own account. I gave Alfred your message
        which pleased him very much. By the way, entre nous,
        it seems that Alfred's baby is expected a little sooner than I
        was quite prepared for. They were married at the end of
       July, and it seems the baby is expected at Xmas ; there are
        such things as five months' children are there not ? I have
        not been officially informed of this, but Mrs. Cathie, Alfred's
        aunt, told me and was inclined to be a little censorious, so I
        flew at her. I said any doctor could tell her that 5 months'
        children were the commonest things in the world. I have a
        very heavy cold, but am getting through with it ; my head is
        better—all I wanted was not to work quite so hard. Alfred is
        at this moment copying out Book xi of the Iliad, and we shall
        have all the first 12 books copied out (typewritten for the second
       six books) by Xmas. By midsummer I hope to have the lot
       done. No publisher found yet for either Odyssey or Dr. Butler ;
        Dr. B. is being offered now to the Cambridge Press. As for
       the Odyssey nearly 30 publishers have refused it, and we have
       settled to wait till the Iliad is done and then start afresh with
       Iliad and Odyssey together. In the meantime I hear my " Sicilian
        Origin of the Odyssey " seems to be gaining ground in Italy and
       Sicily, and will, I doubt not, do so here sooner or later : I shall
        then perhaps have a better chance with my Iliad and Odyssey.
       We have had a splendid November but it is now getting rather
        raw and foggy and very often dark. You are well out of it,
        but I am afraid you will be more or less bored after a couple of
        months. I do hope Mr. Bovill's and the boys' visit will not

«xn                      ULTSSES AGAIN                              197
 fall through. I shall go to Boulogne at Xmas with Gogin and 189+
 I believe Jones will come too. There is a something about -^-et. 59
 Boulogne at Xmas which attracts me and I have been there
 regularly for a good many years. We are also finishing the
oratorio Ulysses which Jones and I began some few years ago
and from which the Odyssey for a time deflected me. I therefore
go to Mr. Rockstro once a fortnight. I am writing the final
chorus of which about half is done. I shall then only have two
more choruses and one or two recitatives to complete my share
of the work. Jones has some lovely things in it and, though it
will probably fall as flat as Narcissus, than which nothing could
well fall flatter, I shall be glad to have done it.
      By the way, please, mind when you next write, do not allude
to the little matter mentioned on p. 1, for Alfred is sure to
get hold of your letter somehow or other and he will read every
word of it. So I am sure you will be careful. By the way,
also—he has petitioned for a few Spanish used stamps if they are
to be had, but he remembered that Carlos is a stamp-collector
also, and said he did not think he ought to ask. I said I thought
he might.
      I hope your cough will continue to get better, but it is plain
you went none too soon. How do you like this from Iliad
Bk xii ?
      " As the flakes that fall thick upon a winter's day, when
Jove is minded to snow and to display these his arrows to man
kind—he lulls the wind to rest and snows steadily till he has
covered the tops of the high mountains, the headlands that jut
out into the sea, the grassy plains and the tilled fields of men ;
the snow falls on the forelands and havens of the grey sea, but
the wandering wave resists it though all things else are wrapped
as with a mantle, so heavy are the heavens with snow . . ."
     This is a very stupid letter but it must go for want of a
better. Alfred unites with me in all good wishes for your health
and wealth of every kind. Jones is not here or he would do so,
and he will I know write for himself.
                        Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
                                                  Boulogne-sur-Mer.
                                                      24 Dec. 1894.
     Dear Mrs. Bovill—Jones was going to write to you               this
morning, but I do so instead and he will write later.               We
thought your letter to him rather more cheerful than the            one
to me, of which Alfred said :
     "Well, Sir, I think she's very low and the sooner she          gets
away from that place the better."

       198             DR. BUTLER REJECTED                           xxxn
 1894       I noted your discretion. I am being gradually prepared for
Aet 59 the somewhat premature appearance of the infant.
            " You know, Sir, we begin to think it's going to be a seven
       months' child."
            " Begin to think " indeed ! when he has confessed to Jones
       and Faesch, and his aunt has told me, that the child is to be born
       early in January and the wedding took place early in August.
       " Five months don't make seven, Alfred " was on the tip of my
       tongue but, officially, I know nothing ; so, not to betray my
       informants, I said he would probably find that the child did not
       come till May. Jones's sister, Lil, sent through Jones some
       orange blossoms for the wedding from Nice, but it was officially
       announced to us, we being away and at the mercy of every lie
       which a guilty conscience might suggest to Alfred, that the
       blossoms were too much damaged to be worn. It was a little
       odd, but we are good unsuspecting souls and took it as we were
       told. Now we understand why the orange blossoms were not
       possible—it was not they that had lost their purity. However,
       I don't think it very much matters provided mother and infant
       do well.
            We suppose that you are now at Gibraltar, and Carlos and
       Miss Harrison will, 1 hope, arrive in a day or two, if they
       are not already with you, to cheer you up. Of course it will
       make all the difference. Jones and I are pretty fit, but I cannot
       quite get rid of my head which comes back with very little
       provocation. The Cambridge Press would not take Dr. Butler.
       I knew they wouldn't but the Bishop of Peterborough and others
       urged me to try them. Here is their Secretary's answer to
       Mr. Watt :
            " Dear Sir—I am directed by the Syndics of the Press to
       inform you that they have considered the proposal contained in
       your letter of December 1 that they should undertake the publica
       tion of the Life and Letters of Dr. Samuel Butler, by Mr. S.
       Butler, and that they have decided not to undertake the work in
       question.—I am, yours faithfully,      Richard T. Wright."
            They only saw the synopsis which I had printed and would
       not even look at the work itself. I was in doubt whether to
       look upon this as merely formal or as "extra special cold, or even
       icy," but my friends at the Museum and elsewhere tell me they
       look upon it as the second. I am sorry they will not take the
       book for Dr. Butler's sake as I should have been glad that his
       life should have had the stamp of the Press of his own university ;
       for my own sake it matters little to me whether I print the work
       or they do ; it will be printed and I am very well able to do it if
       I cannot find a publisher. I confess also that it is a pleasure

XXXII                     JEALOUSY                             199
to me to be under no sort of obligation to Cambridge; if 1894
Cambridge delights to honour the name of Darwin, it is not Art. 59
likely to honour mine. I consider myself as mieux posi by
having offered myself in 1886 (I think) for their Art Professor
ship, and now as having offered them Dr. Butler, and in each
case having been refused, than I should have been if I had
not offered, or if I had been accepted. What my acquaint
ance with Mrs. X is to you your friendship with Z (who
is nothing but a male Mrs. X) is to me ; and you like Z,
whereas as you very well know, I fly before that woman as a
wolf before a fat old ewe whose blood is so poisonous that
the wolf dares not bite her and can only trot along before her
and blaspheme the hour which threw him into the same field
with her. However, chacun a son gout. If ever I hear of your
hobnobbing with Z again I will ask Mrs. X to tea every
day for a month and tell you about it—but I should be dead by
the fifth day.
     Dr. B. is now gone to Oxford, but we shall hear nothing
till term begins. They will refuse it, but they will do so civilly
and with the common forms of courtesy.
     I am half way through Book xiii of the Iliad, but am told
to work as little as possible so do not get on as fast as I should
like to do.
     Love to Carlos and kind regards to Miss Harrison.—Yours
very truly,
                                                           S. B.

                           CHAPTER XXXIII
                                    1895—Part I.
                      THE COUNTRY OF THE ILIAD
                             Butler to Mrs. Bridges.
 189559 borough].
Aet.                 1895—Nothing
            24 Jan. There   was no onehappened
                                         to meet at
                                                 me,the  I was a [at
                                                      so bishop's       deal
                                                                  goodPeter-
        tSte a tdte with the bishop ; but whether this was design or
        accident on his part is a matter which he knows better than I do.
        They were all of them extremely nice and kind, and the bishop
        let me run on about the Iliad and the Odyssey as long as I pleased.
        Of course I kept a look out for signs of incipient boredom, but
        whether they existed or no before I saw them—this again is better
        known to the bishop than to myself.
             Hans Faesch had not done so well in London as he
        had hoped to do—that is commercially ; he was happy in
        his private life and enjoyed being with us, apparently, as
        much as we enjoyed his company ; but that was not busi
        ness and he had his living to earn. We knew he was
        looking out for something else and that he might leave
        London at any time ; nevertheless it was a shock when he
        told us one day, in January, that he had accepted a post
        in a business house at Singapore. On the 14th February
        we saw him off at the Holborn Viaduct Station for Basel,
        where he was to make preparations and say good-bye to
        his family. He was not well ; the weather was cold, raw,
        and boisterous ; we were afraid that the journey would be
        too much for him and that the climate of the East would
         not suit him. On the evening of the next day Butler
        showed me the following Calamus poem which he had

xxxm                              A FAREWELL                                     201
written in the interval. He called it an In Memoriam 1895
because he had persuaded himself that we should never Aet- i9
see Hans again.
  Out, out, out into      INtheMEMORIAM 14 Feb. 1895.H.
                                   night,                     R. F.
  With the wind bitter north-east and the sea rough ;
   You have a racking cough and your lungs are weak,
  But out, out into the night you go,
         So guide you and guard you, Heaven, and fare you well !
   We have been three lights to one another, and now we are two,
   For you go far and alone into the darkness ;
   But the light in you was clearer and stronger than ours,
   For you came straighter from God, and, whereas we had learned,
   You had never forgotten. Three minutes more and then—
   Out, out into the night you go :
         So guide you and guard you, Heaven, and fare you well I
  Never a cross look, never a thought,
   Never a word that had better been left unspoken ;
  We gave you the best we had, such as it was,
   It pleased you well, for you smiled and nodded your head ;
   And now, out, out into the night you go,
         So guide you and guard you, Heaven, and fare you well 1
  When
  Are
   So that
  You   said
        we, men
             they
              then,
               weare flinch
                       weak
                     wereunder
                             a not.
                                little
                                ifthe
                                   we weak
                                        laughlet
                                       knife    when
                                               that them
                                                     thewethree
                                                           roar
                                                             are as
                                                                  ofthey
                                                                     us? wept
                                                                  glad    will,;
  And
  No
  Tillsuch
         one
  Therefore
         goes second
               of
                out,
                 letus tears
                        two
                          sorrow
                        out,   flow
                              out
                               leaves
                                    into
                                     shall
                                      on,  for
                                            ever
                                             other
                                        thethe  so
                                                night,
                                                   draw
                                                   long
                                                     alone
                                                         as weus,
                                                         nigh     live
         So guard the one that is left, O God, and fare him well 1
   Yet three,
   We   for theyou great       he and I,of this grief
                         andbitterness
   In
   May
  As  whom
       they
          passtoo
                into
                we    may
                    passtheout,
                             weep
                              hearts
                                  outanew
                                       into
                                       of     the
                                              and
                                           like  true
                                                   night,
                                                   yetcomrades      them,
                                                        comfort hereafter,
         So guide them and guard them, Heaven, and fare them well !

        202                               GRIEF
  1895     The minutes have flown and he whom we loved is gone,
Aet. 59    The like of whom we never again shall see.
           The wind is heavy with snow and the sea rough,
           He has a racking cough and his lungs are weak.
           Handout,
           Out,       out into
                  in hand      the night.
                           we watch   the train as it glides 1
                So take him into thy holy keeping, O Lord,
                And guide him and guard him ever, and fare him well !
                                Butler to Hans Faesch.
                                                               16M Feb. 1895.
             My dear Hans—I never called you by your Christian name
        before, but I know I may do so now. We keep thinking of you
        all the time, and hoping that you got through your awful journey
        without the serious harm which such a terribly bleak night might
        very easily do you. I woke often in the night, and after one
        o'clock I said to myself, " Thank heaven he is off the sea now."
        I saw next morning that it had been rough. We fear you suffered
        much. What a beast I was for not taking you as far as Calais
        myself and helping you if you were ill ; but it only occurred to
        me yesterday. Before I had done dressing I got out Bradshaw
        and noted your whereabouts, and glad indeed was I when it was
        half-past five and I could think of you as warm, and, I hope, being
        packed off straight to bed.
             In the evening I went up to Jones's, and we tried to talk of
        other things, but it was no use ; we kept turning back to you
        again and again, and saying to each other that, as we had never
        seen anyone like you before, so we never expect to do so till, as
        we hope, we again one day see your own dear, kind face, looking
        well and strong and happy as you deserve to be.
             We both say we hope you will be too busy to have time to
        think much about us ; you will, I know, if you can, and we hope
        that you will be hindered. The sooner we all of us, as men of
        sense and sober reason, get through the very acute, poignant
        sorrow which we now feel, the better for us all. There is no fear
        of any of us forgetting, when the acute stage is passed. I should
        be ashamed of myself for having felt as keenly and spoken with as
        little reserve as I have if it were anyone but you ; but I feel no
        shame at any length to which grief can take me when it is about
        you. I can call to mind no word that ever passed between us
        three which had been better unspoken ; no syllable of irritation or
        unkindness ; nothing but goodness and kindness ever came out of
        you, and such as our best was we gave it to you as you gave yours
        to us. Who may not well be plunged up to the lips in sorrow at

xx*m                   ANTICIPATION                              203
parting from one of whom he can say this in all soberness and 1895
truth ? I feel as though I had lost an only son with no hope of Aet- 59
another. However—the sooner we can all take refuge in active
employment the better for us all.
    Do not trouble to answer this. You will have much to do,
and I have nothing ; hence it is not hard for me to write while it
would be so for you. You can answer by your next letter to
Jones. I know he wrote to you yesterday ; on Monday morning
we hope for good news of you. How I hope indeed that it will
be all that we could wish.
    The fault about your photographs was under-exposure. All
of them came out in the end, but they wanted twice the exposure
I gave them. I suppose it was the yellowness of the light that
threw me out. I shall send prints of the two best as soon as
Alfred can come down and print them, but they are not good,
and, though Jones and I would rather have them than nothing,
they are not near so good as the Stereoscopic Company's portrait
of you.
    And now with every loving and affectionate thought which
one man can think about another, Believe me always from the
bottom of my heart yours
                                                      S. Butler.
                     Butler to Hans Faesch.
                                                       24 Feb. 1895.
    My dear Hans . . . And now I gather that you are to go
to Singapore, and I write a few lines to catch you before you
leave Basel on Wednesday.
    I am very glad you are going, for a great many reasons. Of
course Jones and I would rather have you here, but I am afraid
of our climate for you, and from all I can learn I have a great
hope that Singapore will do you good. It would be no pleasure
to us to have you here and to find that the fog and damp were
doing you harm. Besides you will never be happy till you have
travelled, so good luck go with you, and come back to us well
and strong in a few years' time.
    Now I have one last, great favour to ask of you. Suppose
when you get to Singapore you find you have made a serious
mistake — you will not think so unless you have really made
one—especially, suppose the doctors out there tell you that you
will do yourself a mischief if you stay ; suppose you would come
back only do not quite see your way and do not wish to apply to
your mother for fear of burdening her ; then, my dear Hans, let
me beseech you in the name of all the affection a dear father can
bear to a very dear son, by the absurd, idiotic tears that you have

         204                  THE TRUE LIFE                          XXXIII
 1895 wrung from me, by those we wrung from yourself, by the love
Aet. 59 which Jones bears you and which you bear towards him—if these
        things will not prevail with you nothing will—apply to me, and
        do so without delay in whatever way will ensure your getting
        the answer quickest which you will immediately receive—I mean
        draw on me at once for your passage money and necessary expenses
        and come home.
            The one thing that alarms me about your going is the fear
        of your finding it not suit your chest when you get there, and
        sticking on, as you would probably do, rather than burden your
        friends.
            You need not answer this—I know how busy you must be—
        I shall assume that I have your promise, and it will be a great
        comfort to me, for Alfred does not rely upon me with greater
        confidence for anything I have promised him than I do on you
        for anything I feel I have a right to claim ; and so, my very
        dear Hans, bon voyage et bon succes. As for me, I have a
        lusting after Gravesend and Gadshill. It will comfort me to
        know that the bowels of the landlady of the Shakespeare Inn are
        acting quite regularly. We think of you and love you always.
                                                                   S. B.
                              Butler to Hans Faesch.
            8 March 1895—Since I began to write this I have received
        an exceedingly kind letter from your mother and I am to call on
        her next time I go through Basel which I should think will be
        at the beginning of April.
            I took Alfred the Gadshill walk last Thursday and I seemed
        to have the shadow of another dear person with us all the while.
        I did not see the landlady of the Shakespeare ; she has hurt her
        leg falling over the top of a cask ; I hope she will get all
        right, for I like her. To-day I went with him to Harrow
        Weald (where Queen Elizabeth is) and we had the first really
        warm and spring-like day that we have yet had. It was a great
        treat to both of us. The gulls are nearly all gone, but a few
        remain.
            It seems oh ! such a long time since that never-to-be-forgotten
        night on which you left us and when we were so terribly
        frightened about you. It is hard to think that it is only three
        weeks to-day. Jones and I never talk long of anything else but
        you. It seems to me, the more I think of it, that the true life of
        anyone is not the one they live in themselves, and of which they
        are themselves conscious, but the life they live in the hearts of
        others ; our bodies and brains are but the tools with which we
        work to make our true life which is not in the tool-box and

xxxiii              LIVING IN OTHERS                          205
tools we ignorantly mistake for ourselves but in the work we do 1895
with them ; and this work, if it be truly done, lives more in Aet. 59
others than in ourselves. Look at Handel and Shakespeare—
'what was their conscious life in themselves as compared with
their unconscious life in us ? I made this the subject of my
lecture at the Women's Club. And so you are living, and very
dearly loved, in us, you good and dear Hans, and we feel happy
in the assurance that we too are living in yourself ; and so good
night and bless you.
     " My lecture at the Women's Club " was the one
delivered at the Somerville Club on 27th February 1895,
and is reproduced in The Humour of Homer and Other
Essays (19 13) as " How to Make the Best of Life."
     Hans arrived safely at Basel and proceeded to
Singapore. We sent him a copy of the In Memoriam,
and he was puzzled that Butler should use such expressions
as " Guide you and guard you, Heaven," and " Take
him into thy holy keeping, O Lord."                     Something
must also have been said about publishing the poem
anonymously, Butler having sent it to his literary agent
who, however, did not find anyone to take it ; it was not
published till it appeared in The Note-Books of Samuel
Butler (19 1 2).
                      Butler to Hans Faesch.
    15 March 1895 — And now about my poem. I am not
comfortable about publishing it, but of course all names will be
carefully concealed. I wanted to set you and Jones and myself
together, as it were, in a ring where we might stay and live
together in the hearts of the kind of people we should have loved
had we known them. Mrs. Bovill, Jones, Gogin, and myself are
the only ones that know about it. No more will be told. I
think the lines are so obviously true and so simple that the best
people would like them and, finding Jones and Mrs. Bovill agree
with me, I decided to let the thing go. I hope I have not done
wrong.
    You must not think that I am becoming more a believer in
prayer and all that nonsense than I was. We think exactly the
same, but I know no words that express a very deeply felt hope
so well as those I have used, and the fact that others make money
by prostituting them shall not stop me from using them when I
am in the humour for doing so.

         2o6                     FORBEARANCE                         XXXIII
                                Butler to Hans Faesch.
  1895        22 March 1895—I liked all you told me about the priests and
Aet. 59 the rosary [Hans had met some priests at Marseilles]. When I
         flirted with priests, as I did sometimes (though I hate them just
        as you do), my friend Miss Savage used to tell me I was making
        myself friends of the Mammon of Righteousness. Well, it
        amuses one sometimes to humbug the Mammon of Righteous
        ness, doesn't it ?
             And you know I have a dream that when you have been in
        Singapore about 18 months I shall take a return ticket and run
        out and have a look at you. I cannot, of course, be certain that
        I shall be able to work this, but I know no particular reason why
        I should not—and you bet I should like to.
             Yesterday Alfred was teasing me when I was busy and I
        spoke a little sharply. Then, immediately remembering, I
        said :
             " My dear Alfred, if I ever speak crossly like that please to
        say ' Hans ' at once and it will stop me. Hans was never cross
        and that was why we were so fond of him."
             Alfred said: "Well, Sir, I am sure Hans would not like
       it if he was to hear you speaking cross to me."
             I answered : " Of course he would not, my dear Alfred, and
       that is why I want you to say ' Hans ' at once."
             You see it is just this : If the having known you makes me,
       as it ought to do, less irritable and more forbearing, then, no
        matter how far off you are, you are within me ; I have got
       something of yourself and I shall know that it was not all
       humbug but that I really did understand and love you. Whereas
       if I am no less irritable than before, then I shall know that
       I never understood you or loved you truly. And this shall
       hardly be.
             As we have seen, Butler had completed the life of
       his grandfather; his literary agent was now offering
       it to publishers.          Being finished it had for him lost
       its absorbing interest and he was giving his time and
       his mind to his Odyssean theories.             Extracts from his
       translations had appeared in The Eagle, and here is a
       letter in which he gave to Mr. Sikes, who was then
       editing the St. John's College magazine, his views
       about the limits of permissible archaism in translating the
       classics :

                 PERMISSIBLE ARCHAISM                            207
                    Butler to E. E. Sikes, Esq.
      25 Feb. 1895—I quite understand the view taken by some— ig9J
 that' a certain amount of archaism " is helpful in projecting the Aet. 59
 mind back," etc. I have therefore given modern English a
 pretty wide range and taken it as far back as Defoe for the
 Odyssey, and Bunyan for the Iliad, beyond whom it cannot go
 without obvious affectation.
     And then there is this. People who are at the trouble of
 translating the Iliad and Odyssey for love invariably flatter them
 selves that their translations will be referred to by a remote
 posterity, and they prefer to let time grow its own archaisms into
 their work—as a good sound wholesome wine will mellow with
 time, when one that has been mellowed artificially will not keep
 good for long. He who would write a translation like those of
 the Elizabethans must above all things else avoid Elizabethanisms.
     I am very much indebted to you for the publicity you are
 giving to my extracts.
      Many of Butler's Sicilian friends knew Greek and
 would discuss the Odyssey with him, but he found scarcely
 any one in England who took any intelligent interest in
 the subject, and the professional Greek scholars were
silent or contemptuous.           He used, therefore, to talk
about the Odyssey to me, coming to my rooms evening
after evening, inventing the objections which his opponents
ought to have raised, considering them, adopting them
tentatively, and finally embracing them with such ardour
that he crushed them to pieces. In this way the evolution
of his theory proceeded, and he assured himself that, when
his book should be published, his critics (if any) would be
able to bring forward only such objections as he had
already considered and demolished. I, knowing he had
been at work on the Odyssey all day, used to try to get
him off it by introducing other subjects, telling him what
I had been doing, or what I had heard from Rockstro
about just intonation, or something I might have read
in a paper, such as that Madame Blavatsky had had it
revealed to her from Thibet that every one is accompanied
through life by an Agatho-daemon and a Kakatho-daemon
who suggest to him the doing of good deeds and of evil
deeds ; or I would tell him anything I thought likely to

       208                          GIDDINESS                               xxxm
 1895 amuse him and take him out of himself. It was of no
Aet-59 use. As soon as I began to talk, he was silent, but he
       was not listening ; he was miles away, helping Nausicaa
       to wash her clothes at the salt-works of S. Cusumano ; or
       sitting with Eumaeus in his hut on the slopes of Monte
       Erice ; or he would be going in and out of the house
       of Ulysses and seeing how like it was to the stabilimento
       at Selinunte, where he had had lunch, and how unlike a
       house in Gower Street; or he would be driving with
       Telemachus and Pisistratus in their chariot across " the
       Taygetus range over which there has never yet been a
       road for wheeled vehicles." " When I left off talking
       there would be a pause during which he would come back
       and wait in case I had not done ; after which he would
       continue :
           " And then, you know, she makes Circe "—do some
       thing which no one but a young unmarried woman would
       have thought possible—or whatever it might be that had
       been absorbing him.
           This incessant dwelling upon one subject at last began
       to produce its effect, and he let out to me that, in going
       home from Staple Inn, he had sometimes felt giddy and
       was obliged to hold on to the railings to keep himself
       from falling. I talked this over with Dr. GreatRex, who
       was then attending him, and he recommended me to see
       him home, which I accordingly did whenever he would
       let me. I did not tell him why I came, because his line
       with me was that there was nothing serious the matter
       with him, and it was advisable not to let him suspect
       that I was alarmed. Fortunately circumstances permitted
       his taking his holiday in the spring instead of the autumn
       this year.
            He had been in the habit of giving Alfred an outing
       on the continent at Whitsuntide, thinking it right that
       Alfred should know something of foreign countries. In
        1888 they went to Boulogne; in 1889 to Dieppe and
       Rouen; in 1890 to Boulogne again. In 1891 a further
       attempt was made to continue Alfred's education by
       taking him to Ostend, Brussels, Waterloo, Dinant, and
                  1 The Odyssey rendered into English prose. Note on p. 38.

                ALFRED'S EDUCATION
Bruges. In 1892 they went to Paris with Cook's Whit- 189s
suntide excursion ; in 1893 to tne Channel Islands ; and Aet.s
in May, 1894, to Brussels, Antwerp, Basel, Lucerne,
Andermatt, and the Rigi. There are photographs of
"Alfred on the Field of Waterloo," "Alfred on the
Rigi," " Alfred on the S. Gottardo," and so on.
    Then there came a break in Alfred's education
because after his marriage it was difficult for him to
leave, especially when children began to arrive ; and, as
the reader will have gathered, Alfred became a father
with Shakespearean promptitude. Moreover, it presently
appeared that these excursions resembled Faust at the
Lyceum and were rather "a - draggin' " on Alfred.
This part of his education was no more successful than
the piano lessons had been. I am afraid Butler must be
held to have failed with his pupil much as Miss Savage
failed with Butler when she made him read Middlemarch
and tried to make him read Balzac. Alfred gave me an
account of his foreign experiences. The first night they
were at Wassen it was very dark, and, while they were
taking a turn in the village after dinner, Alfred heard
some queer rumblings and inquired what caused them.
He told me that Butler replied :
    " Well, Alfred, I should think those are probably
some little avalanches ; they're always a-tumblin' down
the mountains."
    This did not reassure Alfred, who was afraid they
might fall upon him and bury him. He did not stay
in the valley long enough to grow accustomed to seeing
the mountains towering above him, and, being unable to
get the perspective right in his mind, thought they were
overhanging and that it would be impossible for him
to escape.
     " And then," Alfred continued, " another day he
takes me into a little chapel, all full of bones—beastly
gloomy, you know, Sir. But the governor, he didn't
mind. He went on a-pickin' up skulls and talking all
the time. Oh ! I was glad to get back again to Loo-sern
and Mount Palatious, I can tell you."
     Butler, with a shade of disappointment in his voice,
     VOL. II                                       P

        no                        TIT-BITS                    XXXIII
 1895 told me about an excursion with Alfred up the Rigi in
iet- 59 the railway. When they were on the top, Butler, full
        of enthusiasm, pointed out the objects of interest :
             " There is the Bernese Oberland, you see, Alfred,
        over there ; and that is the Lake of Lucerne, just under
        neath, to the left."
             " Yes, Sir," said Alfred.
             " And that is a bit of the same lake to the right ;
        you must not think it is a different lake, it is only
        divided by that shoulder of the Rigi."
             « Yes, Sir," said Alfred.
             " And there is Pilatus which I showed you from
        Lucerne, you remember. Don't you think it's very
        fine ? "
             " Yes, Sir," said Alfred.
             " And then over here—you must look this way now
        —those are the Glarnisch Alps, and if you look that way
        you will be looking up the valley we go through on our
        way to Italy in the S. Gottardo Railway.        Aren't you
        glad I brought you ? "
            " Yes, Sir," said Alfred, " and thank you for telling
        me about it. And now if you please, Sir, I should like
        to lie down on the grass here and have a read of
        Tu-Bits."
            Which he accordingly did, having brought a copy
        with him from London.
            On the whole, Alfred was glad to agree to a com
        promise whereby, instead of going for any more Whit
        suntide outings, he received £10 each year, and took his
        family to the seaside in the autumn.
            I read this passage about his foreign tours to Alfred,
        and he said :
            "Yes, Sir, that's all quite true, and I think you've
        done it very nice."
            Butler's work on the Odyssey had caused him to
        re-read the Iliad, and he wanted to ascertain for himself
        how far the descriptions of the localities in that poem
        agree with the actual Troad. He had dreaded going
        to Greece in the autumn because he thought it would
        prove hotter than Sicily ; but this year, Alfred's Whit

xxxin               A TURK'S TERRIER                          211
suntide holiday having been commuted, he left England 189s
for the Troad on 30th March. Before going he made AetS'
arrangements with his bank that Hans Faesch might
draw on him for j£ioo if he found that Singapore did
not suit him and was unable to return to Europe for
want of means.
    First he went to Basel and saw the Faesch family ;
then to Casale to see the Avvocato Negri about Taba-
chetti; then to Florence, where he stayed at the hotel
kept by Isabella of Arona. Here also he saw our friend,
Miss Helen Zimmern, who was by this time settled in
Florence and
published          spring
             thiswas       some
                      editing  Thearticles
                                   Italian by  Butlerwherein
                                            Gazette,           his
                                                       about she   t
Odyssey theories, the substance of which was incorporated
in The Authoress of the Odyssey.
    From Florence he went through Rome and Naples to
Brindisi where he embarked on the evening of 13th
April for Corfu. Here he saw the island which, by those
who identify Corfu with Scheria, is supposed to be the
ship of Ulysses, and found that it would not do at all.
Indeed, he found no recognisable Odyssean feature in
Corfu.
                      Butler to Hans Faesch.
                                                         Athens.
    17 April 1895—I travelled from Patras to Athens with a
young Turk, about 30 years old, and his dog—an English terrier.
We were alone in the carriage the greater part of the time, and
I suppose the poor dog was bored, at any rate after a while he
made up to me ; he licked me all over my face, and then began
to pretend that my coat pocket had got a rat in it which he must
catch. I was so flattered at being made up to by anyone or
anything who seemed to tell me I was a nice person that I let
him go on and hunt for rats all over me, till at last his master
interfered in beautiful English and then we talked. He was
a Secretary to the Turkish Legation and was very clever and
very nice.
    The coffee here is served up grounds and all ; it is ground
very fine ; it drinks thick on the tongue ; I rather like it. The
oranges are splendid, so big, so heavy, so juicy, and so sweet ;
they are as good as peaches.
     He wrote to me also about this young Turk :

        212                     "A FUNNY MAN
  1895       He was very intelligent and nice, but a little inclined to say
Aet. 59 that nothing was much good or came to much in the long run,
        and this is as bad as saying that it does ; so, though I liked him,
        I parted from him without much caring. But the dog was lovely
        and made great friends with me.
             At the hotel in Athens he encountered Miss Jane
        Harrison who had been present in 1892 at his lecture on
        " The Humour of Homer."
                                  Miss Jane Harrison
            I went up and recalled myself to her. She was still sore
        about the lecture and I apologised, reminding her that I had had
        to keep a room full of working-men in good humour.
            "Besides," I added, "you chastised me quite severely enough
        at the time."
            "Was I rude?"
            " Yes," said I, laughing, " very rude."
            So we made it up and smoked a couple of cigarettes. We
        dined together during the rest of my stay in Athens, and I tried
        to ingratiate myself with her, but it was rather up-hill work, and
        I shall never be genuinely forgiven. However, I did my very
        best. . . . We did not quarrel but we did not, I think, like one
        another. . . . She would not have it that I was anything but a
        " funny man " who had taken my present line as a kind of forced
        literary joke.
             Similarly, I have met people who had read Life and
        Habit, and who, while professing to admire the book, were
        unable to see that it had or was intended to have any
        bearing upon evolution.
             Miss Harrison declared to Butler that she had not
        written the Spectator review of " The Humour of Homer "
        (ante, p. 132).
                                  Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                                                 Athens.
            20 April 1895—I have interested them at the British School
        of Archaeology here but, as at the British Museum, they will
        hear, but run dark themselves. I have also interested some native
        Greeks so far that they wanted to know all about it. The thing
        is certain to be accepted sooner or later.1
            The antiquities here are soon seen, and I have pretty well
                     1 Tbc Sicilian origin and female authorship of the Odyssey.

                   REAL AND UNREAL                             213
done them. I should go on excursions did I not fear to stir 1895
before the letter comes from Mr. Calvert at the Dardanelles. Aet. 59
About the oranges, it seems there is a fortnight during which
they are at their prime of primes and I have dropped in for it,
but they are to go off now immediately.
     It is an enormous comfort to understand all about the
Areopagus, the Pnyx, and all that rubbish. When a man dines
at Corinth, gets coffee at Megara, and lights his last cigarette at
Eleusis, he remembers where the places are ; till then he no
sooner learns them than he forgets them again.
     Also here I do rather feel the want of a companion as well as
the nuisance of not knowing the language. I wish you were
here. I have done a little Homer [translating the Iliad'} these
few days. I have not felt the slightest ill consequences, and every
hundred lines I get done is such a weight off my chest. I should
only knock myself all down again if I have a big lot to settle
down to on my return and, so long as I am out most of the day,
a little does me no harm and keeps me in a good temper.
      He went for an excursion to Mycenae, Argos, Tiryns,
and Nauplia with the Rev. E. H. Burtt (afterwards
English chaplain at Genoa). On the way, they met some
German professors, and when Butler said the Odyssey was
written by a woman they would not speak to him further.
" I did it more to tease them than for any other reason,
for I did not like them."            He saw " the Treasury of
Clytemnestra, the Gate of the Lions, the Tomb of
Atreus, etc., of all of which I thought exacdy as every one
else must do." The ancient walls, of course, interested
him specially, and his notes are full of his views as to
whether the stones were worked with iron or not and the
probable dates of the different buildings.
                      Butler to Hans Faesch.
                                                          Athens.
     2$th April 1895—Here I am struck with the fact that the
old Greeks fail just as much with their Joves and Neptunes and
swagger gods and goddesses as the mediaeval Italians did with
theirs. They are utterly uninteresting and unreal. It is only
when they do portraits of real, live, individual men and women
that they really please me. I suspect that this is what makes the
Iliad and Odyssey so fascinating to me—they are so human, and
their gods and goddesses are just so many men and women, only
they are able to do all sorts of things as fairies can.

         214                     MISS ALDRICH                          XXXUI
  1895        There is a woman here [Miss Jane Harrison] who heard my
Aet. 59 lecture about the Humour of Homer and was very angry and
         rude to me about it afterwards. So I went up to her and
         determined to mash her. I don't know whether I succeeded or
         no, but I did my level best. She did not like it at first, but I
         deferred to her opinion on every subject and, after a time, I think
         I made her melt, at any rate a little. Of course I was only
         playing with her and laughing in my sleeve, but I mean to keep
         it up.
              On the excursion [to Mycenae] I met five ladies—very nice,
         all of them—and we mashed each other in fine style. And then,
         near one temple, we found a mamma tortoise with a dear little
         baby tortoise, just like Alfred and his baby. Of course we left
         them alone as soon as we had admired them sufficiently ; but a
         young Englishman then saw them and he took them away at
         once. He will do his best to be kind to them ; but I am afraid
         they would rather be near their own temple than in an English
         garden.
              This, you dear person, must do for the present as I have
         several letters to [" right " deleted] write and my head, though
         better, is not all that it should be. When I begin writing
         ["writing" repeated and deleted] "right" for "write," it is a
         sign that I had better stop ; so bless you and all good luck be
         with you.
              P.S.—I have had my dinner since I finished, and have been
          mashing the lady. I think she is melting and she smoked two
         cigarettes. Only think, on Sunday I shall be at Smyrna, in Asia,
         so we shall be on the same continent at any rate ; thence I go
         on to Troy.
     fOne of the five ladies on the excursion was Miss
          Annie Charlotte Catharine Aldrich.            Transposing the
         letters of Aldrich she made Childar, and as Catharine
       ' Childar wrote The Double Dutchman (1884) and other
         novels. She was a friend of Charles Gogin and his wife
         from whom she had heard of Butler.                She also knew
          Butler's other fellow-student at Heatherley's, Miss Ross,
         whose brother performed the ceremony of marriage
          between the man and the cook by reading a chapter of
          Tristram Shandy (ante, I. pp. 136-7). Through the Gogins
          Miss Aldrich, some years after Butler's death, senTlme
          extracts from the diary she kept while in Greece and gave
          me permission to reproduce them.

xxxm                     "BROWN CAP"
    Extracts from the Journal kept by Miss Aldrich
                           while in Greece
                                    1895.
     Athens. Mond. 22 April.—Went to Cook's office to get 1895
tickets for the excursion to Mycenae. . . .                         Aet. 59
     Tuesday 2yd.—Called at five, got away very uncomfortably,
no breakfast, no comfort. Cook's man saw us off. We had 2nd
class tickets, the carriage was very old-fashioned, no cushions,
partitions of the compartments only reaching up to the back of
the seats, like our 3rd class carriages of 30 years ago. We were
at the end and could see all down the compartments. A young
Englishman was there. He read The Heavenly Twins through
out the entire journey and looked at nothing but his book.1 His
tutor was with him and the old professor from our hotel and
an oldish gentleman in a brown cap, like a tam-o'-shanter, and a
nondescript Englishman. They were all in the furthest com
partment. I heard Brown Cap say something very heterodox
about the rock of Ulysses, and the old Professor, who I think was
German, waxed wroth and then very scornful.
     I whispered to Mrs. S., " I do believe that is Samuel Butler."
     We found carriages in waiting, and Mrs. S. and I drove off
together, our other three ladies together. . . . Finally the
carriage stopped, and we got out to see a beehive treasure-house
built of enormous stones. I only wish I had measured them,
they were so huge. The guide lighted some brushwood in the
inner room, which was the real tomb, and we noticed the build
of the gate, a triangular space left open as in the gate of the
citadel where are the celebrated lions.
     When D. came to me to ask me to interpret for some gentle
men who had had no lunch and wanted some, I was much
flattered, but, as there was nothing to be bought, we offered
them the remains of our lunch, eggs, rolls, and half a bottle of
wine. When they had finished I made bold to go up to Brown
Cap and ask him if he was Mr. Butler. He was and I was quite
excited. I spoke to him of Rossy [i.e. Miss Ross] and Viareggio,
and he was enthusiastic and said how nice she was, and I
mentioned the Gogins and he exclaimed :
     " The nicest people in the world."
     After that I talked to him whenever I could. His companion,
the nondescript Englishman, was a Mr. Burtt, a tutor and a
cleric. He came to me and begged me to tell him Mr. Butler's
name and what books he had written and so on, but he was
               1 This was the young man who took the tortoises.

        216                 COFFEE AT ARGOS
 1895 no wiser when I did. He had never heard of Ercwhon nor any
Aet. 59 0f the others. We saw the tomb of Electra. . . . We saw the
        grave of Agamemnon, where all the gold treasure that is now in
        the Athens museum was found, and the peribolos where the
        elders used to sit in council. In the entrance to the tomb Mr.
        Butler photographed all our party. Then on to the palace where
        were ruins of chambers and bases of columns and the place of
        the hearth. . . .
             We then drove to Argos which was en fdte, flags flying, etc.
        We got out of the carriage and took a cup of coffee each, in the
        open square, to the great amazement of the inhabitants. Then
        Mr. Butler and Mr. Burtt driving up joined us and we were
        quite gay. The Greeks are very stupid at understanding, so
         different from the Arabs. They asked Mr. Butler :
              " How many cups of coffee r "
              He said, "Tpeis" (Treis), pronouncing it as the English do
         « trice."
              The waiter couldn't understand ; so I said, " Treece," which
         is how they pronounce. I do not say " the modern pronunciation,"
         for I believe it was the old as well, and that it is a great pity
         the English pronounce Greek as they do. Mr. Butler, who is
         a great Greek scholar, would have been understood everywhere
         if he had pronounced the vowels and accented the words as the
         Greeks do.
              Then the other carriages came up and we drove to Tiryns, a
         weary cold drive, the N.E. wind bitter. Tiryns is older than
         Mycenae, Mr. Butler thought 2000 B.C., roughly speaking. He
         was delightfully simple and childlike. He upset Mr. Joyce
         dreadfully with his theories, but they got on better afterwards.
         We saw the men's apartments and the huge hearth. . . .
              Hotel at Nauplia stuffy and curtained —excellent wine at
         dinner (resinous), execrable tea next morning at breakfast. I
         spoke to the maid and told her to bring fresh for Mr. Butler ;
         his looked such wash. . . . Away by 9.40, changed at Corinth,
         our three ladies returning to Athens, and D. and I going on to
          Patras. Parnassus shewed up occasionally all the way, and, in
         the Morea, Taygetus and Kyllene were splendid. Mr. Butler
          pointed them out with joy. I told him I had read Erewhon and
          Alps and Sanctuaries ; he recommended Ex Voto as " humane "
         —a delightful person. I was sorry to part. . . . Mrs. S. went
          back in the carriage with him to Athens. . . . D. and I came
         on to Patras.
               After Miss Aldrich returned to England she told the
          Gogins about this meeting and Gogin wrote to Butler :
          "That is the lady to whom about thirteen years ago I

xxxin                A TRICKY SADDLE                                  217
mentioned the fact of your having a literary larder," 189s
meaning, of course, his Note-Books.                                       Aet* 5>
                       Butler to H. F. Jones.
                       Inea (or however I ought to spell it), The Troad.
                                        2nd May 1895.
     I left the Piraeus on Saturday Ap. 27, reached the island of
Chios in the night, went on about 7 a.m., reached Smyrna at
noon, and spent the day about the town, all very oriental, lots of
camels, bazaars, etc. ; went from Smyrna on Monday evening at
5 ; reached the Dardanelles at about 10 a.m. Tuesday ; called on
Mr. Calvert, American vice-consul, who was extremely kind and
took me to the English consul, Mr. Russell. They fixed me up
with an interpreter and head-man, Yakoub, quite trustworthy and
respectable, and I was also to have a mounted soldier, or zaptieh,
and my head-man's under-man ; all which I took as I was told.
     We started from the Dardanelles about two p.m. Lots of
camels on the riverbed lying down. Lots of storks—very tame
and engaging. An hour or so after leaving the Dardanelles I saw
on my right a flat-topped hill—evidently on an ancient site which
 I afterwards found to be Dardanus : strings of loaded camels all
 the time. The country a good deal like Winchelsea and Rye.
     Found my saddle very uncomfortable, but was patient. I had
to keep only the tips of my toes in the stirrups, and they had
padded the back so that I had to be almost standing on the tips
of my toes all the while. At last I got my feet home in the
stirrups which did not mend matters much, and then I could not
get back again, and two knobs chafed and bruised the inside
of my thighs ; and then presently the saddle, without a word of
warning, turned round under the horse's belly. I could not
extricate myself and lay among the horse's feet helpless. Had
the horse been timid I should have been in a bad way, but he
is very sensible and very good—a delightful person—he saw what
it was at once and stood stock still till the men came and
rescued me. I had fallen on a bank of soft sand and was not
even shaken, and as soon as I got (or was got) up, I christened
the horse Hans. The men were all very good to me.
      I passed Renkoi, under the site of the ancient Ophrynium,
 looking down on Tenedos, Imbros, and Samothrace, with the
 higher parts of Lemnos just popping up above the sea. Country
 getting more hilly and very beautiful, weather perfect. After
 five hours' riding, the latter part in great discomfort, we reached
Mr. Calvert's farm [at Thymbra] just at dark. A large family
party — all very kind and hospitable and like a first-class New

        2l8                            TROY                            XXXIII
  1895 Zealand sheep station. They farm 1000 acres about an hour
Art. 59 from old Troy.
             Next morning Mr. Calvert's nephew took me to Troy
        (Hissarlilc) and explained all the latest excavations of 1893- 1894,
        which unearthed what are, I should say beyond all question, the
        walls of the Iliad. What Schliemann found was an earlier lot.
        The first impression is one of disappointment. The walls cannot
        be earlier, one would say, than 1650 B.C. (the Mycenean age).
        They are not megalithic ; they approach regular courses, without
        reaching them ; they appear at first sight poorly put together.
        On seeing the parts that have been sheltered from exposure, either
        by aspect or fallen earth, one perceives how very beautifully built
        they really were ; they are about 18 feet thick at top, and thicker
        at bottom, and must have been very high. The whole south
        wall, looking towards Sigaeum, is missing, but Strabo expressly
        tells us that Sigaeum was built of the walls of ancient Troy.
        Doubtless they took the wall nearest them. Helen could perfectly
        well distinguish swells down below on the plain as in Iliad iii.
        There are abundant traces of an earlier city which was burned
        (as per Iliad) and on the top of, and cutting through the old
        Homeric wall, are the Roman walls of Ilium Novum.
             Then up comes the governor of the Dardanelles forts —
        coffee, cigarettes, compliments, etc. At last I get away and
        ride across the plains to the place where the Grecian fleet lay ;
        get to understand how very substantially accurate it all is, bar
        occasional gross poetical licenses — Hector's running round the
        city is out of the question. The two springs, sources of the
        Scamander, one hot and one cold, are really forty miles off or
        more. I am on my way now, with two soldiers, to see them. . . .
        I reach the Dardanelles on Monday evening. Not a line of
        Homer doing now. Nothing but a week on horseback. My
        horse is worthy of his name ; he is a little beauty. Tell dear
        Alfred as much of this as is good for him with my best love. I
        will continue my story later if I can.
                               Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                                      Inea.
             yd May 1895—I was interrupted by having to pay a visit
        to the Effendi of the place whom it was my duty to salute on
        my arrival. I now resume my story.
             Shortly after reaching the two very large barrows which are
        called the tomb of Achilles and Patroclus and the tomb of Ajax,
        which they may or may not be, we were attacked firmly but
        civilly by a Turkish officer who wasted us a good deal of time
        and then gave it up. We rode some hours, I still in great

                       THE SCAMANDER                            219
discomfort ; passed another very imposing barrow and, about 1895
six o'clock, reached the rival site of Boun-ar-bashi, or however it Aet. 59
should be spelt, but it was too late to examine the site which is
some twenty minutes outside the village. We therefore just
passed through the village and, after crossing the Scamander, a
stream about as big as the Severn at Shrewsbury, reached Mr.
Calvert's at about 7.30. I not tired in the least, but sore and
strained, and tortured through the infernal saddle.
     Next morning I photoed two storks' nests in Mr. Calvert's
farm buildings with the birds on them, and was then taken to an
extremely old, very large and imposing barrow, where I saw a
stratum about twelve feet thick of white stuff, pretty hard pressed
and compact, which on analysis is found to be wood ashes. I
also saw more tortoises. This mound is supposed to be older
than anything now visible at Hissarlik. Then we went on
through lovely, and often very English country, till we got to
the site above Boun-ar-bashi which I could not visit last night.
I looked, I saw nothing but two barrows, both opened, and a
lovely view over the plains to the sea, and again into the gorge
of the Scamander, but not a thing which should suggest the
 Iliad to any reasonable person. However, the site has collapsed,
and I only visited it as in respect to the memory of a departed
 theory which was celebrated in its day.
     Thence we descended on to the river bed flats of the
Scamander, which reminded me a little of the valley of the Lesse
 near Dinant. Lots of lovely birds, almost as good as some of
 the bird-stuffers' windows we see in Oxford Street, my horse
just as engaging as ever, and my saddle delightful — for Mr.
 Calvert, seeing how impossible my saddle had been, lent me his
 in which I could ride without fatigue for any distance. Lovely
 English scenery, with cattle standing up to their middles in the
 Scamander and swishing their tails, the flats on either side well
 grassed and studded with Vallonia oak trees, the grass growing
 right up to their trunks. Here under the trees we rested for an
 hour, and about noon lit a wood fire and lunched.
     Then we left the Scamander and went over some high and
 beautiful open country, up hill and down dale by crooked ways
 and straight, till at about 4 we reached Inea where there was an
 inn, not good but better than I expected. All the place as pure
 Oriental as can be conceived. Shortly after my arrival I was
 told I ought to pay a visit to the Effendi. I did so. I was told
 I need not on this occasion take off my boots, but my interpreter
 did so. The Effendi shook hands with me, and then sat down
 cross-legged, like a tailor, on a sofa ; we had a cup of coffee and
a cigarette ; he was very civil and I said all the pretty things I
could invent. He then enquired at what hour it would be

         220                     DISCOMFORT                               mm
  1895 convenient to me to receive his return visit, and this was arranged
Aet. 59 for 8 o'clock on the following morning.
             As I left the Effendi I heard a loud crying in the air above
        me and, looking up, saw a flight of some thousands of a large
        goose-like bird flying perhaps 150 feet above the ground. These,
        doubtless, are " the Strymonian cranes that wrangle in the air " of
        the Iliad. I must find out what birds they exactly are—I believe
        wild geese and nothing else ; Mr. Calvert at the Dardanelles will
        tell me all about them. Then I walked about the town, very
        squalid ; visited the cemetery, evidently the site of an ancient
        city, and came home to get supper and then to bed.
             Supper was a fair dish of stewed lamb and potatoes, boiled
        eggs, passable bread, good oranges and coffee—no knife provided ;
        the washing apparatus, a tin straw-hat holding perhaps a pint. . .
        [other discomforts]. I therefore made my arrangements accord
        ingly. Went to bed about nine and slept well. . . .
             We started about 8.30 after the Effendi's visit. The inn's
        notion of cafe-au-lait was to boil some milk and throw some
        coffee grains on top of it. However, it did. We went on till
        1 2 and then found a man under a plane tree, who kept an open-
        air camp coffee-stall out on the track, where a very friendly,
        shrewd-looking Turk was sitting with the coffee-vendor, cross-
        legged on a mat under the tree ; also there was a large mob of
        camels and little camels resting, so I shot off several plates. Then
        it came on to rain (not very badly) so we pressed on to this
        place, the inn at which is such as none but a true pedant could
        contemplate with equanimity. To-morrow we are to see the
        two sources, one hot and the other cold, close together, which I
        have come all this way to see ; we then return here for the night,
        and after that go back straight to the Dardanelles. So no more
        at present. Hans behaves beautifully.
             P.S.—The table is so very uncomfortable that I cannot write
        at it. Give my best love to Alfred and tell him he must share
        this letter with you. He should have both the stamps j I will
        try and get some at the Dardanelles.
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                                      Smyrna.
             8 May 1895—Bairemitch, or however it should be spelt, was
        not a nice place—a filthy earthen floor ; cobwebs in every angle
        of the small square box I had to sleep in ; a sour smelling sack
        or two of stale straw to lie on, covered, it is true, with a fair
        Turkish hearth-rug ; nothing to wash in till I made them bring
         me an old tin petroleum box ; neither table nor seat till Yakoub

XXXIII                 ISMAIL GUSBASHI                            221
and I improvised one—need I go on F It is like what Arbuthnot 1895
said to Pope about Handel's genius : " Imagine the utmost you Aet. 59
can imagine and his powers will transcend all yours of imagina
tion." There was a place where they went to discharge their
natural functions but I would sooner marry Mrs. X. than go
near it a second time ; indeed it reminded me of Mrs. X.
Again, need I say more ? The food ? Hard-boiled eggs, up-
country bread, cheese, and a little lamb's liver—five pieces on a
skewer like a cats'-meat skewer.
     I visited the swell official of the place ; it being Friday (their
Sunday) there was a gathering of eight Turks sitting cross-legged
on a long settee against the wall. The usual coffee and cigarettes
and pretty speeches. All quite right but I must have another
soldier, etc. So next morning at six we started—lovely weather,
lovely country, with the snowy top of Ida continually getting
nearer. After three hours we got among the defiles of the
mountain itself, and the Scamander became a brawling torrent.
Presently we came to thick beautiful virgin forest, and a
government saw-mill with an official and twenty soldiers. The
official Effendi [Ismail Gusbashi] was very kind. He knew the
place I wanted—he would take me there. So up he comes with
ten soldiers (I had now 13) and a dish of fresh trout and some
carpets and, after an hour or so through lovely mountain forests
always following up the Scamander, we reached a piece of level
grass land under the trees carpeted with flowers and abounding
with brilliant birds such as blue jays, and I saw some hoopoes.
     Here we bivouacked, and a hundred yards or so higher up
there was a strong spring gushing out from about 4 feet of rock
into an artificial receptacle. The water from one corner was
perceptibly warmer than that from the other, but the waters mix
so soon and in such volume that one could not easily (if at all)
get the warm water at its full warmth. Still there was a con
siderable difference of temperature, but I felt sure it was not the
right place, which I have since found that it was not (yes, it was).
The carpets were spread over the flowers under the trees ; the
Effendi sat cross-legged on one corner (you may be sure I had
given Hans lots of bread already) the soldiers cooked the trout,
frying them in egg, and they were very nice—hard-boiled eggs,
cheese, and more cats' meat.
     The Effendi was a delightful man, but he had now fallen in
for the first time with Wisdom from the West and was resolved
not to let the opportunity slip. He was not married ; he was
rather troubled in mind about this ; he was now fifty ; would I
be good enough to tell him whether he had done right or
wrong ?
     I said that it had evidently been the will of Allah that he

        222           WISDOM FROM THE WEST                               xxxm
 1895 should not get married and that, until Allah signified his desire
Aet- 59 for a change in some unmistakeable way, I should conclude, if I
        were he, that I was best fulfilling the will of Allah by remaining
        single. This appeared to comfort him. He lifted his hands to
        heaven and said it was a true word that I had spoken. I said the
        same difficulty had presented itself to me. In my younger days
        I had been passionately in love with a very beautiful young lady
        but—and here my voice trembled, and I looked very sad—it had
        been the will of Allah that she should marry another gentleman,
        and this had broken my heart for many years, but I was now
        beginning to feel better.
             [Here the letter breaks off, but the rest of the story can be
        given from " Homer's Hot and Cold Springs " in The Note-Books
        of Samuel Butler, 19 1 2.]
             "Besides," I continued, "suppose you marry a woman with
        whom you think you are in love and then find out, after you
        have been married to her for three months, that you do not like
        her. This would be a very painful situation."
             " Ah ! yes indeed ! that is a true word."
             " And if you had children who were good and dutiful,
        it would be delightful ; but suppose they turned out disobedient
        and ungrateful—and I have known many such cases—could
        anything be more distressing to a parent in his declining years ? "
             " Ah ! that is a true word that you have spoken."
             " We have a great Imaum," I continued, " in England, who
        is called the Archbishop of Canterbury and who gives answers
        to people who are in any kind of doubt or difficulty. I knew
        one gentleman who asked his advice upon the very question that
        you have done me the honour of propounding to myself."
             " Ah ! and what was his answer ? "
             " He told him," said I, " that it was cheaper to buy the milk
        than to keep a cow."
             " Ah ! ah ! that is a most true word."
             Here I closed the conversation and we began packing up
        to make a start. When we were about to mount I said to him,
        hat in hand :
             "Sir, it occurs to me with great sadness that though you
         will, no doubt, often revisit this lovely spot, yet it is most certain
         that I shall never do so. Promise me that when you come here
         you will sometimes think of the stupid old Englishman who
         has had the pleasure of lunching with you to-day, and I promise
         that I will often think of you when I am at home again in
         London."
              He was much touched and we started. After we had gone
         about a mile I suddenly missed my knife. I knew I should
         want it badly many a time before we got to the Dardanelles,

 XXXIII                     PRESENTS                              223
and I knew perfectly well where I should find it ; so I stopped 1895
the cavalcade and said I must ride back for it. I did so, found -Aet. 59
it immediately and returned. Then I said to Ismail :
     "Sir, I understand now why I was led to leave my knife
behind me. I had said it was certain I should never see that
enchanting spot again, but I spoke presumptuously, forgetting
that if Allah (and I raised my hand to Heaven) willed it I should
assuredly do so. I am corrected and with great leniency."
     Ismail was much affected. The good fellow immediately
took off his watch-chain (happily of brass and of no intrinsic
value) and gave it me assuring me that it was given him by a
very dear friend, that he had worn it for many years and valued
 it greatly—would I keep it as a memorial of himself? Fortun
ately, I had with me a little silver match-box which Alfred had
 given me and which had my name engraved upon it. I gave it
to him, but had some difficulty in making him accept it. Then
we rode on till we came to the saw-mills. I ordered two lambs
for the ten soldiers who had accompanied us, having understood
 from Yakoub that this would be an acceptable present. And so
 I parted from this most kind and friendly gentleman with every
warm expression of cordiality on both sides.
     I sent him his photograph which I had taken, and I sent the
soldiers their groups also—one for each man—and in due course
I received the following letter of thanks. Alas ! I have never
written in answer. I knew not how to do it. I knew, however,
that I could not keep up a correspondence, even though I wrote
once. But few unanswered letters more often rise up and smite
me. How the Post Office people ever read " Bueter, Ciforzin
St." into " Butler, Clifford's Inn," I cannot tell. What splendid
emendators of a corrupt text they ought to make ! But I could
almost wish that they had failed, for it has pained me not a little
that I have not replied.
Mr. Samuel Bueter,
      No. 15 Ciforzin St., London, England.
                                           Dardanelles, August 4/95.
Mr. Samuel. England.
     Mv dear Friend,
              Many thanks for the phothograph you have send me.
It was very kind of you to think of me to send me this token
of your remembrance. I certainly appreciate it, and shall think
of you whenever I look at it. Ah My Dear Brother, it is
impossible for me to forget you. under favourable circumstance
I confess I must prefer you. I have a grate desire to have the
beautifull chance to meet you. Ah then with the tears of gladness
to be the result of the great love of our friendness A my Sir what

        224                         INNOCENCE                        XXXIII
  1895 pen can describe the meeting that shall be come with your second
Aet. 59 visit if it please God.
             It is my pray to our Lord God to protect you and to keep
        you glad and happy for ever.
            Though we are far from each other yet we can speak with
        letters.
            Thank God to have your love of friendness with me and
        mine with your noble person.
                                Hopeing to hear from you
                                    Yours truly,
                                          Ismayel from
                                        Byramich hizar memuerue iuse bashi.
              Butler returned from the Troad to Athens, but was
        not allowed to land because quarantine had been estab
        lished ; so he changed his steamer and came on to
        Catania. There were two young Americans on board
        " as innocent as two green peas in May." They " read
        their Bible on the Sunday morning and were otherwise
        very fresh, ingenuous, and new-laid-eggy."
                                 Butler to Hans Faesch.
                                                               Aci Reals.
              13 May 1895— By the way, I am afraid I shall never venture
        to Singapore ; the six days I had on board the ship between the
         Dardanelles and Catania made me feel as though I could hardly
         stand a month of it, especially in tropical seas. I had forgotten
         what voyages were. However, who knows but I may take
         heart after all, later on. You may be sure I should like to. The
         perpetual jarring of the screw is what I found most trying. And
         now I am just under Mount Etna, and this morning I saw it
         without a cloud and such a lot of snow on it. I thought of poor
         dear you passing this very town where I am now two months or
         so ago, and having the mountains all hidden in clouds.
               He spent a couple of days at Aci Reale and then went
         to Palermo, Trapani, Calatafimi and back to Palermo,
         telling all his friends about his experiences in Greece and
         the Troad, and how what he had seen bore upon his
         Odyssean theories. From Palermo he went by boat to
         Naples and then to Rome.
               He had seen in The Times a statement that Mr.
         Gladstone intended to make a Mediterranean cruise, and
         wrote to him from Rome trying to interest him in the

XXXIII                      SCALPS                            225
Sicilian origin of the Odyssey, begging him, if he touched 1895
at Trapani, to consider the question on the spot. Aet- 59
Emanuele Biaggini, from Trapani, and Mario Puglisi,
from Aci Reale, also wrote to Mr. Gladstone who replied
to Mario. He thought that " Homer " got the idea of
Trinacria from a Phoenician report of Sicily and that
 the voyages of Ulysses were confined to a part of the
 Mediterranean more towards the East. At least this is
 what I understood ; and, if so, it is improbable that Glad
 stone touched at Trapani. Butler received two postcards
 from him, acknowledging receipt of his book or some
 pamphlets on the subject, or perhaps this letter from
 Rome—I have forgotten which. I remember, however,
that he treated the postcards somewhat in the spirit in
 which we used to read that the North American Indians
treated scalps, he had them framed and hung them up
in his rooms. After his death they were given to his
 nephew, Harry Buder, and I have not got them to refer to.
 I also gave to Harry Butler Ismail's brass watch-chain.
     From Rome Butler went to Casale, where the Avvocato
Negri had unearthed the contract with the Varallo people
for the making of Tabachetti's " Journey to Calvary "
chapel, dated 27th April 1599 :
    Therefore the chapel described in Caccia's guide, 1586, which
appeared to correspond with it, must be some other now
cancelled. It makes a great change in my ideas of things. I
go to Varallo to-morrow for one night to see Arienta and talk
to him about it.
     From Varallo he returned to London, stopping at
Basel to salute and photograph Madame Faesch and her
family, and reached London early in June.
     It may not seem much of a rest or change to be taken
from the Odyssey to the Iliad ; nevertheless the journey
to Greece and the Troad was both to Butler. He found
nothing to disagree with in the received opinions concerning
the geography of the Iliad, consequendy there was nothing
to invent objections or to fight about, and he returned to
London with his health restored to something like what
it had been before the Odyssey began to trouble him.
     VOL. 11                                               Q

                            CHAPTER XXXIV
                                    1895—Part II.
         PREPARING DR. BUTLER'S LIFE, THE ODYSSEY BOOK,
                                   AND ULYSSES
                               Butler to Hans Faesch.
                                                            \Stth June 1895.
  1895       My dear Hans — I took Alfred to Gadshill on Sunday.
Aet. 59 The public-house where the lady was about whose bowels I
        enquired has changed hands ; the old landlord and his wife have
        retired into private life. I am sorry, for I liked the woman well
        enough. Everything just the same at Gadshill—the garden very
        gay and pretty and eggs abundant. Yesterday I took him to
        Harrow Weald, where Queen Elizabeth is, and we lay down and
        went to sleep for an hour on the common at the top of the high
        ground. These outings do both him and me so much good that
        now the summer is on I mean to take a lot of them. I have
        picked up a good deal this week but my head is still not all that
        it ought to be, and I have no doubt it will be some time yet
        before I undo all the mischief that has been done.
            Alfred has never once had to say " Hans " to me since I came
        back, so I begin to think I am getting quite good-tempered.
        Jones and I, talking about the death of the Sultan of Johore last
        night, said : " Why do they not make Hans the new Sultan, and
        then we could go and stay with him in his Imperial Palace ? "
        But the older I grow the greater fools I find everybody to be,
        except you and Jones and myself and Alfred and Gogin and about
        half a dozen more.
            There ! It is 9.30 a.m. and I hear Alfred fumbling away
        with his key in the key-hole. He will be inside in another
        second and then how much more do you think he is likely to let
        me write to you or to anyone else ? So with a whole prayer-
        book full of the most beautiful good and kind wishes that a
        grandfather may send to a very dear grandson—I am yours,
                                                              S. Butler.
                                         226

               SHORTENING DR. BUTLER                            227
     Butler's literary agent did not meet with success in 1895
offering the MS. of Dr. Butler's Life to publishers. One Aet. 59
of the publishers maintained that 150,000 words was
the limit for such a book, whereas the words in Butler's
MS. appeared to amount to nearly a million.                    This
was an exaggeration ; nevertheless the work was too
long.     Butler, however, could guess neither how much
nor what kind of reduction a publisher would be likely
to require ; and even if he could, the idea of shortening
the book was not pleasing to him because, as he wrote to
his agent (17th April 1895), he believed that, if less widely
saleable, it would be more permanently useful as a book
for reference on all questions connected with the history
of education from 1790 to 1840 in the shape in which
he had it than in any other. After anxious thought he
at last made up his mind to cut out as much as he could
bring himself to omit and to publish the book at his own
expense, knowing that this was not giving it the best
chance of selling, but despairing of finding any publisher
willing to speculate in it. He returned to Mr. Murray,
who had already declined to publish the MS. at his own
risk, and arranged that he should publish it on commission
after it had been shortened.           The shortening and the
seeing the book through the press provided him with a
troublesome occupation for more than a year.
                       Butler to Hans Faesch.
     10 July 1895 — I am in the thick of getting my Life of
Dr. Butler ready for the press and my head is still not what it
should be ; it is all right as long as I do not fatigue it, but with
a very little extra exertion the mischief returns.
     My Selection Book. I send a copy by this mail and am glad
that there is someone there [in Singapore] whom you should wish
to show it to. Hear my prophecy : Some day, when you least
expect, some one will come to Singapore whose mere presence
shall change the aspect of the whole place. Or a veil will drop
off from some one who is there already, and the heat will become
less hot thenceforward.
    Zola. [Hans had been reading Lourdes, and wanted Butler
to read it too.] Nothing can make me think worse of clerics

        228              DESIRE AND POWER                           xxxiv
  ,89S generally than I think now. When I have written all I want to
Act. 59 write, then perhaps I may have a little time for reading, but the
        older I grow the less I read beyond what I am compelled in the
        course of my own studies.
             Towards the end of June I saw Rockstro for the last
        time. He was in bed, ill in body, but with all his wits
        about him. He was correcting an exercise and said :
              " I am not now looking out for fifths ; it's not worth
        while ; anybody can do that for you ; but you won't get
        anybody else to tell you the things I am telling you."
              I was to go again for another lesson, but he was too
        ill to see me and died on the 2nd of July, aged 72.
              The reader, knowing Butler's views about learning
        and doing, may have been wondering what can have
        happened during his counterpoint lessons. When they
        began I was nervous, as I have said in chapter xxviii. ; but
         I soon saw that there was no probability of their being
         discontinued. In the first place, Butler was very much
         interested in Rockstro and his obiter dicta, and, secondly,
         Rockstro was no less interested in Butler and in all he
         said. Every bar of every exercise became the prelude to
         a discussion on the philosophy of art. It was flogging
         dead horses and fighting battles o'er again for both of
         them, but their enjoyment was not thereby spoiled.
         They, no doubt, enunciated between them all, and more
         than all, that Butler and I had said during our drive
         from Varese to Angera in 1878 (ante, I. p. 282), when we
         passed the architectural mausoleum which provided the
         text for our conversation about aryd-n-r) and yi/wo-t?. If
         Rockstro, as he probably did, said, as I had said, that an
         artist must master his technique before he can express
         what he wishes to say, Butler certainly objected, as he had
         done to me, that in devoting his energies to gaining this
         power, the artist will lose the desire to say anything, and
         then will come the temptation, which generally proves
         too strong, to glory in merely displaying the ability he
          has acquired. This naturally afforded opportunities for
          a repetition of the contents of the chapter, " Considera
          tions on the Decline of Italian Art " in Alps and Sanc
          tuaries, and of those chapters in the published Note-Books

xxxiv          SUBJECT AND TREATMENT                                        229
which deal with kindred matters.1 Fundamentally, per- 1895
haps, they were of the same opinion ; but they could Aet- S9
not say so openly—such an admission would have put an
end to the discussions. Besides, Rockstro was present as
teacher ; he might have admitted that since art is an
affair of this world, neither subject nor treatment can
exist alone to any purpose, they are like spirit and body,
each permeated with the other ; but he was chiefly con
cerned in enlarging upon treatment and in explaining
how to make the subject presentable. And Butler, the
pupil who was there to learn what he could about
technique, had in his time submitted to so much teaching
that he listened with suspicion and was jealously watching
lest he might be overtaken by the fate of " all the clever
little children," in Alps and Sanctuaries, who get " browsed
down by the academies."
      So we kicked, but we did Rockstro's exercises. No
doubt if we had kicked less we should have made more
progress ; we did not suspect, however, that we were
wasting time, for we had no idea we were to lose him so
soon. We looked upon him as a kind of treasure-house
of learning to which we could always resort to refresh
our fading memories of all that he had told us about
the history of the delay in the recognition of the grave
supertonic among the notes of the diatonic scale ; about
ornamenting your construction and not constructing
your ornament ; about the avoidance of the redundant
limma ; the use of the Fa fictum ; the tritonus.
Rockstro usually spoke of this last as " Diabolus " ; but
sometimes he would say : " Ah, yes ! but there now !
Yes ; don't you see what you have done ? Well, now
there you've got That Thing." And he was never tired
of impressing upon us the necessity for thinking in just
intonation. He was writing a book about just intonation
when he died, full of curious and valuable information.
If he had lived to finish it I doubt whether it would
    1 Namely chapters vi. Mind and Matter ; vii. On the Making of Music, Pictures,
and Books ; viii. Handel and Music ; ii. A Painter's Views on Painting ; x. The
Position of a Homo Unius Libri ; xi. Cash and Credit ; xii. The Enfant Terrible of
Literature.

        230                 LIKE THE TIGER                    xxxiv
  1895 have found a large market, so few being interested in
Aet- 59 these questions ; for Rockstro they were real living
        interests of the first order, among which he passed much
        of his mental life.
            He was probably the most learned contrapuntist of
        his day, and had what does not always accompany great
        learning, an intuitive sympathy with the mental attitude
        of the pupil. He knew, in some apparently supernatural
        way, all we had been through in preparing an exercise,
        what particular difficulties we had struggled with, what
        we had written first and why we had altered it. He was
        exceedingly kind, but he did not spare us. On the
        other hand, when he gave us a subject that was not to
        our taste we used to tell him about it. If one of us
        succeeded in doing an exercise which met with his
        approval, we could not resist pointing out to him that,
        however correct it might be, it was dismally dull to
        listen to, which he had to admit ; the inference being
        that this was all the fault of his stupid subject. At last
        he made a concession. He said :
             " I see how it is, you are like the tiger who disdains
        to eat meat that he has not himself killed. Very well
        then, I'll tell you what — you shall make your own
        subjects."
             After this, instead of giving us any more subjects,
        he allowed us to bring him the songs and choruses we
        were writing for Ulysses, and he criticised. Then we saw
        what had happened, and that the old gentleman had
        known where he was going when he made his concession.
        He ruthlessly took advantage of the strong position into
        which he had escaped, and paid us out for grumbling at
        his subjects by stigmatising ours as " unsuitable "—he
        even used a harsher word, many harsher words, such as
        "refractory" and "intractable." His line was that so
        long as we were merely learning to cook we could not
        be blamed for defects in the material supplied to us ;
         but that the moment we undertook, like the tiger, to do
        our own marketing as well, we had loaded ourselves with
        a double responsibility and must put up with the con
        sequences. And, whereas we had never been able to tell

xxxiv            THE CHICORY SUBJECT                         231
him what was the matter with his subjects, except vaguely '895
that they did not please us, he always could show us quite et" S9
clearly why ours deserved whatever epithet he chose to
apply to them.
     With the memory of Rockstro and these discussions
in his head Butler went down to Shrewsbury to stay with
his sisters, and wrote to me :
    ind Aug. 1895—I am all right, but have said that there was
chicory in the coffee (I should have said, to be nearer the truth,
that there was perhaps some coffee in the chicory) and the
development [by Mrs. Bridges] of this ill-selected and unpleasant
theme has left me stordito, if that is the word—which I doubt.
     After Roclcstro's death, feeling that we still wanted
some experienced musician to preserve us from commit
ting unpardonable errors in our music, we prevailed upon
Mr. Sydney Pearce Waddington to steer us through to
the end of Ulysses, which he did with great patience and
skill.
     For the scheme of our oratorio I had used, as I have
said above, The Adventures of Ulysses, by Charles Lamb,
who wrote to Manning 26th February 1808 :
    It is done out of the Odyssey, not from the Greek (I would
not mislead you), nor yet from Pope's Odyssey, but from an older
translation of one Chapman. The Shakespeare Tales suggested
the doing of it.
     The reader already knows that Butler's Odyssean
studies grew out of the writing and composing of Ulysses,
which grew out of Narcissus, which grew out of his
passion for Handel as applied to his financial difficulties.
Re-reading the Odyssey naturally suggested to him
re-reading the Iliad, and these two great poems of
antiquity equally naturally suggested to him re-reading
the works of the greatest poet of modern times. He
bought Shakespeare in the Temple edition, and kept the
volumes in a light bookcase which he had put up over
his bed. Before going to sleep he gradually read through
the Plays and began puzzling over the Sonnets. Thus
he was led from the Odyssey to the Sonnets as Lamb
had been led from the Plays to the Odyssey. And the

        232                STRATFORD-ON-AVON                           xxxiv
  1895 puzzling over the Sonnets caused him to go to Stratford-
Aet. 59 on-Avon, just as his puzzling over the Odyssey and the
        Iliad had caused him to go to Trapani and Troy.
                               Butler to Hans Faesch.
            9 Aug. 1 895—I met Jones at Stratford, as arranged, and we
        called on Shakespeare, but he was not at home. His servants,
        however, for the modest sum of sixpence, let us go all over his
        house and, for another sixpence, we saw the Museum in which
        was his signet ring, "W. S.", which he used to seal with and
        there was a letter to him with his address on the outside from
        a gentleman who said he should be very much obliged if Mr.
        Shakespeare would be kind enough to lend him a little money.
        When he was born they just entered him as " Guglielmus Filius
        Joannis Shakespeare April 1564"—but I do not remember the
        date—and when he died they merely put in the register
        " April 23 Guglielmus (or William, I forget which) Shakespeare
        Gent." He was entered just like any common person ; and so,
        of course, he should be ; for as " God to the man who is writing
        a dictionary is only the word that comes next to " Go-cart," so,
        to a registrar, a name, a date, and a birth, death or marriage are
        the limits within which his concern lies.
             Then we saw the church with his monument and the stone
        under which he lies. I send you a little sixpenny book with
        pictures of the chief things. All the time Jones and I kept
        saying to one another, " Would not dear Hans like this ? " at
        everything we saw. Then we sat on a bench in front of the
        river in the churchyard and smoked a cigarette. We asked our
        selves whether we would rather bring Shakespeare back to us for
        an hour or have Hans back for an hour from Singapore ; and we
        settled that, if it was to be only once, we ought to say Shakespeare,
        because, by waiting, we hope that Hans will come back of him
        self and, if we did not have Shakespeare then, we could not have
        him at all ; but for the pleasure of the thing we would rather
        have Hans.
                                Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
             12 Aug. 1895—Thank you for your card. I rejoice to hear
        that you are better. I am rubbing on, but better I am not nor
        shall be till poor old Dr. B. takes his hands from my throat.
             Jones returns this evening and will give me your Sunninghill
        address.
             I am having a learned (so pray don't look for it—it is full of

XXXIV                 EARLY WRITING                             233
Greek) polemic in The Academy with a Prof. Ridgeway about a 1895
passage in the Iliad. This too is very bad for me—but I could Aet. 59
not help it.
                        Writing in Homer
     So much turns upon the correct interpretation of the words
oTj/iaTa kvypd {II. vi. 1 68) referred to in Professor Ridgeway's
interesting and valuable letter in The Academy of July 13, that
his, as I believe, mistaken rendering " baleful pictographs "
(adopted from Mr. A. J. Evans) should not be allowed to pass
unchallenged. The <rqpara kvypd do not refer to the individual
characters in which the letter of introduction, or testimonial, was
written, but to the letter or testimonial as a whole ; they are the
<r%ta of 1. 178. These crqimra or this <rrjpa—plural being used
much as we say "letters of introduction," without necessarily
implying that there was more than one letter — was a irCva£
jttv(ct<5s, on which were written 0viw<f)66pa irokkd. The passage
should be rendered : " He gave him treacherous letters of
introduction, to which end he wrote much damaging matter on
a folding tablet." There is nothing in the passage to indicate
that the damaging matter was pictographic rather than alphabetic.
      The evidence for a fairly free use of writing in Iliadic times
and earlier is derived, not from the words orj/Mn-a kvypd, but from
the statement that these trqpxna kvypd consisted of a tablet so
 folded that none but the intended recipient should read what was
 written, and were covered with much writing. A better case
 for pictographic writing might be made from //. vii. 175-189;
 but nothing very positive can be extracted from this passage. —
 Samuel Butler, 12 July, 1895.
       The foregoing letter appeared in The Academy of
 20th July 1895 and letters continued to appear week by
 week until the 31st of August, when Butler wrote giv
 ing a reference to Professor Jebb's Introduction to Homer,
 which showed that Jebb took " the common-sense view";
 whereupon the correspondence ceased.
       In considering the various details of practical life
 which are mentioned in the Odyssey Butler always tried
 to keep his mind in sympathy with the mind of the
 authoress, in the hope of discovering what sort of a
 person she could have been.            In the fifth book, after
 Ulysses has been with Calypso for seven years, Mercury
 is sent to tell her to let him go home. So, in order that

        234                 THE GREAT BEAR
 1895 he may build himself a raft, she lends him an axe, an
tet. 59 adze, and some augers, shows him where the best trees
        grow, and leaves him to proceed with his work.
            He made the raft as broad as a skilled shipwright makes the
        beam of a large vessel, and he fixed a deck on top of the ribs and
        ran a gunwale all round it. He also made a mast with a yard-
        arm and a rudder to steer with.
             This easy generalisation " as broad as a skilled ship
        wright makes the beam of a large vessel," coupled with
        the careful explanation that the rudder was to steer with,
        convinced Butler that the Odyssey was not the work of a
        shipwright ; just as the details about the hoggets and
        the younger lambs of Polyphemus, and his getting milk
        from his ewes after their lambs had been with them in
        the day-time " all in due course " (Odyssey, ix.) show
        that it was not written by a shepherd ; and just as the
        statement, in the discarded Introduction to Part II. of
         Narcissus, that the solicitor, who came post-haste to
         make the will of the aunt, brought with him " the usual
         necessary things," may be taken as showing that Butler
        was not a lawyer. The raft, however, got built and was
        seaworthy enough for Ulysses to make the voyage on it
        from Calypso's island (Pantellaria) and, notwithstanding
         Neptune's opposition, to reach Scheria (Trapani). We
        are told that he " steered towards the Great Bear, which
         is also called the Wain, keeping it on his left hand, for
         so Calypso had advised him," and this steering business
         threatened to give Butler trouble. He did not see how
         he could be sure of the precise direction taken by Ulysses
         unless he knew what the Great Bear was doing at that
         time, which appeared to involve entering into intimate
         relations with the Precession of the Equinoxes from
         which he modestly shrank.           He was still of the same
         mind about the stars as he had been when I had referred
         to them at Varese in 1878, and quite recently had told
         Biaggini that he knew the sun and the moon but that
         there his astronomy ended.             So he wrote to the
         authorities at Greenwich, stating his difficulty and asking
         for information and assistance. The Astronomer Royal,

kxiv                       SOCIETY                            235
although, as he said, the investigation of such literary 1895
questions was rather outside his province, nevertheless Aet- 59
sent a polite reply from which it appeared that if Ulysses
had started from Pantellaria about 3000 years ago and
followed Calypso's sailing orders, he would have arrived
at Trapani {The Authoress, p. 182).             And this, as it
was what Butler wanted for his theory, was entirely
satisfactory.
                      Butler to Mrs. Bovill.
     Aug. 1895—One line to thank you for your very kind letter
received the day before yesterday. It is very kind of you to ask
me to Sunninghill but I cannot possibly come. I leave home on
Mond. Sep. 2 for three weeks and this time I am to take no
Homer and no Dr. Butler with me. If that doesn't set me up
I shall begin to patch up my old body for one place or the other,
but I think it will set me right. I want something, for I do not
cross the streets in confidence and I get instinctively as near
palings and walls as I can. It's all Homer and Dr. Butler. The
shortening the work [Dr. Butler] is going on and I am more
than half-way through with it, but it has been a tiresome job.
I do not want the Homer—or rather the Odyssey—and you can
show it anyone you wish to show it to.
     I am so glad to hear you say you shall trouble less about
society for I know you will be a great deal happier and healthier.
 " 'Ollow " is not a bad enough word for it ; it is filled with
 mephitic gases as well as being " 'ollow." I feel like Jesus
Christ—when two or three are gathered together I do not mind
 being in the midst of them, but I do not want to be bothered
 with more, and those two or three must smoke.
     Alfred's baby seems to be going on quite nicely now and I
 have every hope that it will pull through. Mrs. Cathie (I mean
 my old Mrs. Cathie, Alfred's aunt) gives it an excellent character
 for general goodness and amiability, and I can trust her to know
 and to tell me what she thinks. She is a good old thing. We
 are now in trouble about the vaccination question in which
 neither Alfred nor I believe, but I suppose we shall have to
 submit to it.
     If you write while I am away Alfred will forward.
      This passage about two or three being gathered
together was borrowed from Miss Savage's letter (ante,
 I. p. 225), but Butler followed the recommendation he
gave in his essay " On English Composition " in The

        236                      CHIANTI                       XXXIV
 1895 Eagle of 1858, and by adding the stipulation that they
Aet- 59 must smoke, " set out the borrowed capital to interest."
             We went to Switzerland and spent three weeks on
        the S. Gottardo at Wassen, Hospenthal, and Bellinzona.
        At Wassen we stayed at the Hotel des Alpes, where they
        had specially good Chianti this year ; I suppose we must
        have drunk it all—at all events it was never so good in
        the following years. We used to take a bottle with us
        up the side valley to Meien, where we sketched all day,
        meeting for luncheon at the fountain in the village.
        The old priest also came to the fountain to wash his
        shutters which had been taken down for the summer,
        and it was now time to bring them out again and replace
        them for the winter. He had gold rings in his ears, like
        those in one of the portraits of Shakespeare, and, as he
        struggled with his shutters and the water, his sottana
        became disarranged and, like John Pickard Owen and
        his brother, we discovered that the mass of petticoat which
        enveloped the holy man from the waist downwards was
        not all solid priest, but that he had legs as a Christian or
        an ordinary man has and wore trousers. Butler made
        a note about it, and we wondered at the time whether the
        Chianti could have had anything to do with its being
        such a particularly good note as we both thought it. I
        have often wanted to refresh my memory of it but,
        though I have repeatedly looked for it among his papers,
        I have not yet come across it. Perhaps he destroyed it,
        as I fear he must have destroyed another note which I
        remember his making and which also I cannot find. It
        had nothing to do with Chianti. It was a regret that
        Handel had nowhere put into music the wind whirling
        the autumn leaves into spiral eddies along the road.
             In the next letter, to Hans Faesch, Butler alludes to
        the lies he had to tell to get new-laid eggs and the price
        he had to pay for them on our Sunday walks. Further
        particulars can be read in The Note-Books of Samuel Butler
        (191 2) "New-Laid Eggs" (p. 249). Hans had been
        present at some of the bargaining and had been much
        impressed by the masterly way in which Butler introduced
        the pseudo wife, daughter, or baby for whose benefit the

                 "FIND MR. BUTLER"                            237
eggs were said to be required. It was a standing difficulty sg95
through the winter and is referred to in other letters. Aet. 59
But it did not continue to the end of his life, because
about 1898 he lost the desire to eat any more eggs, no
matter how fresh. The fatal facility of cooking them
had led to his eating them too frequently.
                     Butler to Hans Faesch.
    15 Nov. 1895—I took Alfred to Gadshill last Sunday and
yesterday we went a walk to Harrow Weald and paid a visit to
Queen Elizabeth. The lies I have to tell to get a new-laid egg
now are something awful—and then I only get one or perhaps two
and have to pay 2d. apiece for them.
    13 Dec. 1895—As for the photo of your people which I sent
you when I came back from Basel, you say I am not in it ; but,
you dear person, you are wrong and, as in those stupid puzzles
that used to go about a year or two ago when we were told to
find the—whatever it might be, so I have half a mind to puzzle
you by saying " Find Mr. Butler in your print of your mother
and^brothers ' ; but as I hate to puzzle anybody—and especially
you—let me say at once that I am underneath your family s
laugh, I am inside the smile, for it was at me that they were
laughing. They were all as grave as judges, so I made them
laugh and thus got myself into the picture.
     This photograph had been taken while we were on
our way home from Switzerland. Soon after our return
Butler received a visit from a Sicilian who was in London
and who had been told to call upon him by one of his
Trapanese friends. Butler enquired in what way he could
help him. The Sicilian wanted to learn English, so
Butler gave him half an hour every day. He wrote to
another friend at Trapani that his pupil was a delightful
person but very stupid and made the same mistakes time
after time. When this had been going on for three months
the Sicilian borrowed £2. Butler wrote to Trapani :
    He will probably repay me the £2 and then a few days
afterwards will want to borrow £4.. If he repays me the £2
then I will get rid of him at once. If he does not pay me, then
I will ask him to do so after a reasonable time and on this I shall
probably see no more of him. If he wants to borrow more—that
would be best of all, for I could then refuse and shew him the
door.

 238                      THE DEVIL                           XXXIV
     Of course he ought not to have given him the English
lessons ; but he felt bound to do so because he had
received so much hospitality at Trapani and made so
many friends there. 1 forget how it ended ; probably
the Sicilian did want to borrow more with the predicted
result.
     Butler had taken Rockstro's photograph and had
given a print to Mr. J. A. Fuller Maitland who, as I
have mentioned in a previous chapter, was musical critic
for The Times, and who had introduced us to Rockstro.
The photograph was an unusually successful one and at
Fuller Maitland's request Butler lent him the negative so
that he might have prints made to give to Rockstro's
friends. This led to some correspondence from which I
give two extracts :
                J. A. Fuller Maitland to Butler.
    6 Dec. 1895—I'm afraid it would not be any inducement if
I offered to arrange, in return, for a performance of Narcissus on
Handel Festival scale at the Crystal Palace next summer.
                Butler to J. A. Fuller Maitland.
    7 Dec. 1895—I have always been a little piqued with the
Devil for never having thought me sufficiently worth catching
to bait his hook with a performance of Narcissus on however
small a scale. For surely he must know that he could in some
sort catch me about Narcissus.


it\, tit* ,y\<s£urruil .Jortmi* (j-aUery
                 '     '. Hitler's itwra' * . '''                   .• '
       '             ' .' *'':<' I n..id did                   -i         . .
         v         . r: :ig painful.         Dr. Dtid^ <-••;) '.*'. ..le
                 '• whit.'-, were folioweo .vit' f              -li :'<.--,
             >'' two of the recognised leader? of Mr                        d
            .o better result. They thought he n.^hi
          fom gout or neuritis or — half a <io/.cr>
              ; hut Si ff,t remained very pair-.f.d v,d
       rc-.v             i  u ' i.. ' -. fo S,i         ;.'             .r.y
      me tn.-r                     •          i    • •       f i : - <-r: .
     accompa ::> .
   i 1 not like i • •
     • re there might ha e '                         .-            '' "y,
    . was so much trav.                          ¦               •        ' ¦
      fhit, after he came to kmn ibc ->                              • . I. '
           .irsl objection was absurd ; and . r .: '\
              m the railway down to K:-.;^:o, ".e
              • \ more thin the 4? M'inur:s' '
  ',            >1 - -. .1. I told ) m f • I v -., : : '
   ;•. .!•.-( n ii- . •        ':. ~ix:. '.:•.;>'' . ! • ' • . '- - •
 about, k ' >•                  'hat •> ' wc.dd                         .
- ; and so a *.t> settled ,;,->' ! w.in to ¦
!t London e;ir!y in Ap: i                           ' w.-, ('-.-;
 e we saluted rhe Faesch                        ni "
    ':e inform.'! >>n we had -
       . from tiir East, and tl >

in- the . Xntitmxii ^Jwtrviif Cv//Av-iy
                  CHAPTER XXXV
                            1896
   THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF DR. SAMUEL BUTLER
 The improvement in Butler's general health after his **96
journey to Greece and the Troad did not last, and his ct. 6'
 feet were now becoming painful.       Dr. Dudgeon made
 various suggestions which were followed without success,
 and the advice of two of the recognised leaders of medical
science led to no better result. They thought he might
 be suffering from gout or neuritis or— half a dozen
different things ; but his feet remained very painful and
as the time drew near for him to go to Sicily in the spring
it seemed to me that he ought not to go alone. Hitherto
I had not accompanied him for two reasons ; first,
because he did not like the responsibility of taking me to
a country where there might have been risk ; and secondly,
because there was so much travelling by sea, and I am a
bad sailor. But, after he came to know the Sicilians, he
saw that the first objection was absurd ; and as it was
possible to go in the railway down to Reggio, the sea
journey need not be more than the 40 minutes' crossing
from Reggio to Messina. I told him that I wanted to
see all the places and be introduced to all the people I
had heard about, knowing that he would enjoy showing
them to me ; and so it was settled that I was to go.
     We left London early in April and went first to
Basel, where we saluted the Faesch family with whom we
exchanged the information we had received from Hans
in his letters from the East, and they showed us the
                              239

        24o                    PARAGRAPHS                             xxxv
  1896 photographs he had sent home. Butler had chosen the
Aet. 60 camera for Hans and when he sent it out wrote :
             What we want most are photos of yourself as big and as sharp
        as you can get them. The camera I sent you should take a face
        as big as a shilling—and if you can get it as big as eighteenpence,
        so much the better.
             From Basel we went to Casale where Butler gave a
        dinner at the Albergo Rosa Rossa to the Awocato Negri
        and several of our friends. Then we went to Florence,
        where we stayed at Isabella's hotel ; she dined with us
        one evening and Miss Helen Zimmern came to meet
        her. Another evening we dined with Miss Zimmern and
        a number of her friends came in. Butler took with him
        his manuscript translation of the Odyssey. He was
        showing it to Miss Zimmern and to one of the guests,
        who was a schoolmaster on his way to Rome for Easter,
        and explaining that he had tried to make it readable, so
        that it might compete with fairy stories and with tales
        of adventure, such as Robinson Crusoe and Gulliver s
         Travels, and thus find a market among boys. The
        schoolmaster, glancing at the manuscript, pointed out
        that schoolboys would never read a book in which there
        were so few paragraphs ; the page looked repellent.
        Butler had the habit of not breaking up the pages of his
        manuscript into paragraphs ; his view was, as he had
        explained to Rockstro, that it was an author's business to
        make his meaning clear, and the manner of its presentation,
        though not to be neglected, was of secondary consequence.
        But he profited by the schoolmaster's advice and made
        many more paragraphs when the book was being printed.
              This was not the only lesson he received that evening.
         The other was on a subject more difficult than the
        attractive displaying of type on a page. It was on the
        art of understanding women. Most of the other guests
         were ladies, and the conversation turned upon Stockton's
         story " The Lady or the Tiger ? " Butler had not read
         it, and they had to tell it to him shortly. The princess
         and a young man have fallen in love ; he is to be punished
         by being brought into the arena where he is to open one

 XXXV                     WOMEN                            241
 of two doors ; behind one door is a tiger, behind the 1896
 other is a lady ; if he opens the first, the tiger will come Aet. 6
 out and eat him ; if he opens the second, the lady will
 come out and marry him ; he does not know which is
 behind which, but the princess is in the secret and is
 sitting among the audience ; he looks to her for a sign
 and she directs him to open—here the story breaks off,
 hanging on the query, Which door did she indicate ?
     The ladies at Miss Zimmern's all agreed that it was a
 foolish query because, of course, no woman could bear
 to see her lover torn to pieces by a tiger ; true, no
 woman could bear to see her lover marry a rival, still it
 would be the lesser of two evils, and women being by
 nature tender-hearted she would certainly spare his life.
 We listened with interest, and felt that we were learning
 something.
     The conversation then turned, as it often does among
English people in Florence, upon the Brownings—and
what a remarkable pair they were ! and what an ideal
marriage ! One of the ladies remembered that she had
once before discussed " The Lady or the Tiger ? " in a
company which included a lady who knew Mr. Browning
slightly.   At the request of the others this lady had
written to the poet stating the problem and asking what,
in his opinion, the princess would have done.             Mr.
Browning replied on a postcard that the princess would
have let out the tiger, and so would any woman ; he
had no doubt about it. Whereupon the ladies at Miss
Zimmern's all agreed that Mr. Browning was right.
And they attributed the correctness of his solution of
the problem to his consummate knowledge of women,
acquired no doubt from that wonderful woman his wife.
And so the conversation was left hanging on a query no
less perplexing to us than the query of the story, and we
were not sure that, after all, we had learnt anything.
     From Florence we went through Orvieto to Cortona,
where Butler showed me in the Museum the famous
Etruscan lamp and also the painting of " La Musa
Polinnia," which is reproduced as the frontispiece to
The Authoress. From Cortona we went to Rome, where
    VOL. II                                            R

                 •
         242                      VESUVIUS                           XXXV
 1896 he showed me the house in which he and his family had
Vet. 60 stayed in 1843.         We saw many of the sights, and
         ascended the tower of the Capitol, as Dr. Butler had done
        in 1822.
             I could not contemplate from this spot, which commands all
        the monuments of Antient Rome, without feeling very strong
        sensations ; in short I could not refrain from an actual gush of
        tears. I stood on the Capitol ; on my left was the site of the
        temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, etc., etc. (The Life of Dr. Butler,
        I. 227).
             Butler intended the " etc., etc.," with which he breaks
        off the sentence, to cover a smile at the old schoolmaster's
        " very strong sensations." His own were less unruly ; he
        had no difficulty in refraining from "an actual gush of
        tears."
             Between Rome and Naples we stopped at Frosinone,
        drove to Alatri, and wondered at the polygonal masonry
        of the great bastion. All this was doing him good, and
        as we neared Naples it was delightful to observe the
        childlike pleasure he took in making me look out for
        Vesuvius on one side of the carriage while he looked out
        on the other, in case we might miss the first possible
       glimpse of it.
             " There it is ! Come over here.            Do you see it ?
        And it's smoking ! Do you see the Observatory? I'm
       so glad it is smoking. I hope we shall see the glow after
       dark."
             Vesuvius was far better than the view from the
       Capitol.      And after dark we did see the glow.             We
       went out into a piazza where there was a statue of
       Vittorio Emanuele and watched the red-hot lava, until
       presently, as we turned to go back to the hotel, he said :
             " But it's nothing to Etna.           It's a mere pocket
       volcano compared with Etna.              Why, Etna is nearly
       I I ,000 feet high and this trumpery little thing is only
       about 4000. You wait till we get to Reggio."
            We had three or four days in Naples to see the usual
       sights and the house in which he had lodged in 1843,
       and left the city by driving to Pompeii. Here we went
       over the ruins, and the same day went, part of the way

 XXXV                        ETNA                        243
 by carriage and the rest of the way on horseback, up 1896
 Vesuvius to a place near the Observatory where was the Aet. 6
eruption of which we had seen the glow from Naples.
The view over the sea with the islands in the sunset was
 magnificent and after dark we walked about near the
red-hot lava, and brought away two bits of it into which
 pennies had been imbedded by the guide who carefully
piloted Butler about, and addressed him as " Papa." We
returned very tired and with our boots full of lava dust
to Pompeii, where we slept.
     Next day we went to Salerno and made an excursion
to Paestum to see the Temple of Neptune. I was not
told that there was anything finer than this ; on the
contrary, it seemed impossible that there could be any
thing more imposing ; nor could we, by imaginary
alterations in its lines or proportions, think of any change
that would not spoil it.         And we agreed that there
was no force in the objection that it ought to have been
built of marble, as the Greek temples were, instead of
stone. This objection, we thought, touched it no more
than an objection to a performance of the Messiah that
the singers were not of royal descent would touch that
work.
     We went by train along the coast down to Reggio
and saw Etna at last. It was as faultless as the Temple
of Neptune. We crossed to Messina and went to Aci
Reale, where he introduced me to Mario Puglisi Pico.
Then we went to Siracusa and had an interesting conver
sation at the Museum with Dr. Paolo Orsi about the
antiquities of the island ( The Authoress, pp. 1 8 5-6). On
our return to Catania we made an excursion for the day
to Taormina and tried to find the remains of Naxos
about which Orsi had told us ; but on this occasion we
failed to identify them.      We saw Taormina, however,
and understood why it is so much extolled.
    We then went through the island to Palermo, and he
introduced me to Peppino Pagoto who was studying at
the University. From Palermo we went to Calatafimi,
where Ingroja received us.       He hired horses and with
Cavaliere Adamo we went to Segesta, where we spent the

                       AURIGAE DREPANENSES
1896 day, and Butler photographed us all, some of us on
et. 60 horseback, with a corner of the Temple as background.
            We drove from Calatafimi to Trapani, arriving on the
       5th of May. The news of his arrival spread all over the
       town at once ; we had dinner in the midst of a crowd of
       friends, and afterwards held a kind of levee till bedtime.
       Next day we drove with Signor Pietro Sugameli to the
       salt-works of S. Cusumano, and saw the Grotta del Toro
       and the Grotta di Polifemo. We spent the next day on
       Mount Eryx, and picnicked on the site of the Temple of
       Venus.
           Before leaving Trapani, Butler took me into the
       church of S. Maria di Gesu on purpose to show me the
       inscription and outline picture on the stone over the vault
       of the coachmen of Trapani. In 1903, when I went to
       Trapani to give the town the MS. of The Authoress of the
       Odyssey, I revisited the vault, and in my " Diary of a
       Journey through North Italy to Sicily" (1904), wrote
       about it :
           There was the inscription on one of the stones of the floor :
                              AURIGAE DREPANENSES
                               V1TAE STADIV CURRERET
                           MORTIS TELO CONFOSS . . .
                          . . . CURSUM COHIB . . .
                           EXTREMAE TUBAE CLAGORE
                                   EXPECTANTES
                              ANNO DNI MDCCXVIII
           Some letters are missing from the third and fourth lines ; my
       friend Mr. Arthur Maiden, of Salisbury, thinks that, with the
       contractions written at length, the words probably ran as follows :
           Aurigae Drepanenses dum vitae stadium currerent mortis
       telo confossi hie cursum cohibuerunt extremae tubae clangorem
       expectantes. anno domini mdccxviii.
           The Trapanese charioteers, while they were running the race
       of life, struck by the dart of Death, stayed here their course,
       awaiting the sound of the last trump.
           The inscription covers one half of the stone, and on the other
       half is an outline, pathetic in its incompetence, showing one of
       the tenants of the vault as he might have been seen in the costume
       of his period, driving his chariot and pair. . . . Butler, who never

XXXV                         CEFALti                         245
could resist an epitaph, always intended to copy the inscription 1896
and the outline but always omitted to do so.                     Aet. 60
      I was wrong in thinking that he made no copy of the
inscription; I have recently found that he did, and he
also made a note in which he speaks of
. . . the stone to the Cocchieri di Trapani in S. Maria di Gesu,
with a lovely little Lord Mayor's coach and two mules driven by
a little Cupid who had come straight down from the Temple of
Venus on Mount Eryx.
      The difference between his note and mine goes deeper
than mere literary skill.         On referring to a sketch I
made of the outline in 1904, I now see that the driver's
costume cannot accurately be said to belong to any
period, for he is wearing nothing but a three-cornered
hat. Butler recognised him for what, of course, he really
is.     And yet I might have identified him as well as
Butler ; for, now I come to think of it, I remember the
making of this note and that it was modelled on that
passage in Ex Voto (p. 35) where he describes our meeting
a wild old man at Varallo who had actually seen a
murderer beheaded, and we thought he " looked like an
executioner broken loose from the Flagellation Chapel on
the Sacro Monte."
      We went from Trapani to Castelvetrano and Selinunte
and saw the ruins, and the quarries at Cusa, where the
stones for the temples at Selinunte were excavated. We
returned to Palermo and went to Cefalu to see the
megalithic walls down by the sea, and the building on
the headland which is believed to belong to the
Mycenaean period.          These are important for Butler's
theory because he identified Cefalu with Telepylus, the
city of the Laestrygonians.
     I may mention that when my friend Mr. H. F. Jones and
myself were at Cefalu in the spring of 1896, we met a flock of
goats coming into the town to be milked about five in the
afternoon, and on our return from a walk we met another
flock coming out after having just been milked. These two
flocks must have met and the shepherds must have saluted one
another as in [Odyssey] x. 82, 83, but unfortunately we did not
happen to be at their point of meeting. [The Authoress, p. 186.)

246                           MILK                                 XXXV
                         Odyssey x. 82-86.
    {From " The Odyssey Rendered into English Prose " by S. Butler)
    Telepylus the city of the Laestrygonians, where the shepherd
who is driving in his sheep and goats [to be milked] salutes him
who is driving out his flock [to feed after having been milked]
and this last answers the salute. In that country a man who
could do without sleep might earn double wages, one as a herds
man of cattle and another as a shepherd, for they work much the
same by night as they do by day.
    This is the prehistoric joke about the Laestrygonian
man who could earn double wages if he could do without
sleep, referred to by Butler in his letter to me of 30th
August 1892 (ante, p. 146).              We were told that the
goats were driven into Cefalii to be milked from 6 till 8
in the morning and again from 5 till 7 in the evening ;
and this was the only town known to our informant
where they were so driven and milked, and where fresh
milk could be obtained twice a day, and therefore the
only town where a sleepless man could earn double wages.
In most Sicilian towns there was, in 1896, no evening
supply ; you had to take your milk when the goats
passed in the morning or wait till to-morrow. No doubt,
as Butler says in The Authoress, fresh milk could have
been obtained in the evening in Palermo, Messina, or
Catania, but it would not have been the usual thing.
Even in Rome our landlord told us that it would be an
exceptional thing for the goats to come to be milked
in the evening.
     We left Sicily by crossing in the boat from Messina
to Reggio and then went by train to Salerno whence we
made an excursion to Paestum and spent another " day
with the Temple of Neptune." Then we went through
Rome and Pisa to Genoa, where we separated, I going to
Nice to see my mother, and Butler, after calling at Casale-
Monferrato, going to Lucerne to meet Alfred. For,
notwithstanding the commutation of Alfred's Whitsuntide
outings, and notwithstanding the wife and children, it
was felt that he ought to be able to say that he had been
in Italy—or rather that Buder ought to be able to say it

   xxxv               BUTLER'S COMPLEXION                                   247
   for him. So Alfred travelled all by himself and with no 1896
   adventures to Lucerne, where he met Butler, who took et- 6o
   him through the S. Gottardo to Lugano, Porlezza,
  S. Salvatore, Luino, Locarno, back to Lucerne, up the
  Burgenstock and home via Basel.
                           Butler to Hans Faesch.
      30 June 1896—I have to start for Shrewsbury to the annual
  speech
  before
 and   is doing
          Friday
           festivities
                  itunless
                        andwell.
                      very I Idoknow
                                 so Inow.
                                       went
                                         I shall
                                              Gogin
                                                 havetoisno
                                              down        Shoreham
                                                          painting
                                                             chancemyandwriting
                                                                     of   sat to \, I
                                                                        portrait
  him Saturday and Sunday and I shall have to go several times
  more. He is to paint Jones and he talks of painting himself.
 I have finished my Life of Dr. Butler and have corrected the                       '
 index so that I have nothing whatever to do more. Now I have
 about three or four months' work at the [translations of the]
 Iliad and Odyssey and then these also will be ready for press, so
 now I am able to get to the music for Ulysses and am at work
 upon a chorus for it which I find very difficult. I wish I had
 not to go to Shrewsbury ; I am always happier at home and at
 the British Museum than anywhere else. Here we are full of
 Dr. Jameson's trial, the wreck of the Drummond Castle, the all-
 night sitting of the House of Commons, and all the usual things.
      Gogin's portrait of Butler is now in the National
 Portrait Gallery. A reproduction of it, made by our
friend Mr. Emery Walker, is at the opening of this
chapter. Years after the picture was painted Gogin
wrote to me about it :
                      Charles Gogin to H. F. Jones.
fourteen
/             1910—
     19 Feb.years   since
                        How * time
                               -
                           Butler's  flies
                                       portrait  washardly
                                           ! I can          believe
                                                      painted       Shoreham.
                                                                at it is nearly
How well I remember the hot summer and the weekly (and 1 am
afraid also weakly) struggling in the morning with S. B. to get
him to save up his complexion for the afternoon sitting. But no,
he must take his walk, and for that he chose the beach ! At all
times his face was not pale ; still it was very paintable. How
ever, there he was, impossible to be copied, a flaming deep red ;
and there was nothing for it but to " cook " the colour to any
extent.

         248                                 ONIONS                                  xxxv
                                    Hans Faesch to Butler.
  189660 would
Aet.     with
         England,
         very   Chinese
                 not
             10handy
                  July
                    only
                      do.
                      if 1896—I
                          sticks
                           it I allalso
                         anybody        this
                                        is
                                        do
                                     ;goeshave
                                           used
                                             by
                                             about
                                              is cucumbers
                                                 very
                                                 boat the
                                                  to it. andsame
                                                              with
                                                               andin
                                                        difficult asaonions
                                                                      the
                                                                       we
                                                                       gunbeginning
                                                                          used
                                                                            ; and
                                                                              without,
                                                                                 towe  eat
                                                                                        in
                                                                                        it
                                                                                    dobut
              By this time Hans had moved from Singapore to
         Saigon. He called his boat the Samuel Butler and had
         a Swiss flag. There are, of course, many letters from
         him, but they contain little that bears upon Butler's life.
         The onions were pickled onions and we found them
         refreshing when getting our lunch on our Sunday walks.
         Butler used to recommend every one to take them when
         going on a picnic.
                                    Butler to Hans Faesch.
     531 July 1896—Never mind about De Galembert's being
         a Roman Catholic if he is a good fellow otherwise. It is a great
     ! thing that you should have anyone at all whom you can make a
         friend of. I hate all that rubbish, whether Catholic or Protestant,
         more and more the older I grow and, so far from becoming
         indifferent to it, the sense of the harm it does in a thousand ways
         and of its utter unworthiness impresses me more and more con
         tinually. I loathe it. But, at the same time, I think we oppose
         it more effectually by treating it with silent contempt than by
         arguing about it. In fact I am not sure that the best way of
         dealing with those who are on the other side is not to pretend to
         agree with them a little more than one really does rather than
         to argue with them. The more they see us anxious to get them
         to think as we do the more they will stick to their own opinion.
         It piques them far more and makes them far more uneasy if we
         make them see that we do not care one straw what they think.
         This makes them suppose that we must feel strongly enough not
         to want their support and the more they think this the more of
         their support will they give us. It is always a sign of weakness
         —Gracious heavens ! how I am running on and telling you
         things you know already a hundred times better than I do.
         Forgive me and set it down to old age.
             I forgot to say that at the Shrewsbury speeches Jebb, Regius
         Professor of Greek at Cambridge, was there. He is supposed to
         be a great authority on Homer. I was at the high table, only

xxxv                        APOLOGIA                             249
two places off him. The headmaster in his speech called attention 1896
to my presence and was highly complimentary about me, but Aet- 6o
Jebb never opened his lips and this was, I do not doubt, intended
as a slight. I shall get over it.
                   Butler to R. H. Hobart Cust.
     15 Aug. 1896—Your very kind letter of Aug. 6 from Milan
only reached me yesterday, having gone from TrObner's to
Longman's before it was sent to my address. I thank you for it,
and for the encouragement which it affords me. I may, however,
take this opportunity of putting you on your guard against some
of the many mistakes which have been found in Ex Voto, and
which I fear are never likely to be corrected in a second edition.
     1. I had a fine fit of admiration of the statues in the vaulting
of the Paradiso chapel [at Crea] and ascribed them (as they were
then generally ascribed) to Tabachetti. It is certain that he never
did one of them, but that all are by the painter Moncalvo.
     This comes of going to such places in dull January foggy
weather, alone, and under a preconceived idea ; on looking at the
figures later I was a good deal ashamed of myself.
     2. Caccia's book, or rather pamphlet guide, published in 1586,
of which there is a copy in the Biblioteca Ambrosiana, describes
what I took to be Tabachetti's chapel as then finished. I think
anyone seeing the description and the actual chapel would think
that the one was intended for the other ; other chapels are also
described in Caccia which I did not doubt were those at present
existing. Unfortunately last year the original contract with
Tabachetti was discovered by my friend Cavaliere Negri at Casale
and it is dated Ap. 1599, and this upsets my chronology very
seriously.
     Cavaliere Negri and I are now quite agreed that instead of
going from Varallo to Crea, as has been hitherto believed, Taba
chetti went first to Crea about 1590 (where his brother Nicola
Tabachetti also worked) and went thence to Varallo doing all his
work there between 1598 and the year of his death, which Cav.
Negri has ascertained to be 161 5. He probably died at Varallo.
     Caccia did what I have since found done even to a greater
extent in later guide-books : as soon as he knew that it was
intended to make a chapel he described it as made. In some
guide-books to the Sacro Monte of Varallo which may be seen in
the Biblioteca Nazionale at the Brera, illustrations are given of
chapels which are described as made, but which to this day have
never been even begun.
     All my pretty argument, therefore, about the Saas chapels
falls to pieces, so far as the support I claimed from ascertainable

         250             NJRCISSUS IN PALERMO                           xxxv
  1896 chronology is concerned. Still there is an influence of Tabachetti
Aet. 60 about those chapels which requires explaining. If you have not
        seen them you might care to do so. They are very rough, rude,
        and common in execution ; but, as I have said elsewhere, Taba-
        chetti's work at Varallo seems to have been present to the mind
        of the designer, while no other work at Varallo is in evidence.
            Did you ever see a work of a very different kind in the church
        of Sta. Anna at Gliss near Brieg ? A recumbent figure in wood,
        stained, with much accessory work dated 1517 or 1519 or there
        abouts. If you have not, it will be worth your while to do so on
        the next opportunity that presents itself.
             About six months later, early in 1897, Butler wrote
        another letter, similar to the foregoing, pointing out the
        mistakes in Ex Voto to the Rev. F. C. Fisher of Gains
        borough who had written to borrow photographs of the
       statues on the Sacro Monte at Varallo which he wanted to
       illustrate a lecture he was proposing to give. In thank
       ing Butler for his letter Mr. Fisher admired " the readi
       ness (not common in authors) with which you not only
       acknowledge such errors as you could scarcely avoid
       making in your very interesting book, but even announce
       them gratuitously to strangers."
            Butler had given a copy of Narcissus to Ingroja, who
       was to get some musical friends to go through it.
       Ingroja had studied English and wrote :
                       Cavaliere Biagio Ingroja to Butler.
            13 Sep. 1896—The musical whole evening in your honour
       was solemnised at Palermo at house of my dear friend the Com-
       mendatore Professor Sirena. The Narcissus was plaied on violin
    \  and piano and the elect auditory did like it very much, and
       unanimously judged it a very pretty musical work in sweet
       pastoral style, suited to the subject, and overfull with wealthy and
       learned harmony.
            We went to Wassen again this autumn and sketched
       there and up the Meien Valley. On our way home we
       stayed in Basel and saw the Faesch family, including
       Hans's younger brother, Remi (Remigius). Butler wrote
       to Hans about him saying how much we liked him ; the
       opening of the next letter is about Remi.

xxxv                        S. FIRMIN                         251
                      Butler to Hans Faesch.
    22 Sep. 1896—Wc are delighted with him and feel sure that 1896
he will do well. No, I don't agree with you. I do not want Aet- 6°
him to have more of the teaching of adversity than can be helped.
Of course adversity has some teaching, but it is a clumsy round
about way of arriving at a result that can be got better by
prosperity. However, as adversity is sure to come sooner or later,
let us hope that it may do him an awful lot of good when it does
come. Anyhow we are very much pleased with him and the
sooner he comes to London the better we shall like it.
    Then we went on to Amiens to see the cathedral there, but I
did not much like it. There are some lovely painted sculptures
round the choir. It seems S. Firmin (I think that was his name)
came to convert the people of Amiens, and Faustinien, the pagan
governor, comes to the gate of the town to receive him with great
pomp, and the saint converts him. In the next group we see all
Amiens taking off its clothes and coming to be baptised. Then
the good Christian governor, Faustinien, seems to be replaced by
a terribly wicked wretch who puts S. Firmin into prison, and
finally they cut off his head. And so things seem to have jogged
on for a good many years till a certain S. Salve discovers that
Amiens can never become really good and happy till they have
found the body of S. Firmin. He accordingly prays God to tell
them where it is lying, for no one had put up any tombstone ;
and one day, as S. Salve was performing mass, God sent a star
which conducted the saint to the place where the body lay.
Then they dug it up, and it is quite fresh and has all its bishop's
robes on as though it had just come from the wash—and it does
heal such a lot of people.
     Here we are all full of the dynamite conspiracy, Constanti
nople, and the Soudan. It will take wiser heads than ours to say
how it is all going to end, but I never remember to have seen
things look so threatening since the Crimean War and the Indian
Mutiny.
     Among Butler's papers I find a note that Mr. Fisher
Unwin called upon him at the beginning of October 1896
and, in the course of conversation, asked him what he was
doing. " I said I had my book about the Iliad and the
Odyssey to do first, but that, when that was done, I had
often thought of writing Erewhon Revisited." Nothing
turns upon this interview and note, but it is interesting as
being the first mention I have found of a definite intention
to write a sequel to Erewhon.

         252             DR. BUTLER PUBLISHED                             «xv
 189660 and
Aet.     Lichfield,
         LjfeOn
              Social
               andthe
         Shrewsbury inLetter
                      Life
                        School,
                        sofar
                        2ndofOctober
                                0f
                                as1798-1836,
                                   jyr
                               England,
                                   they we
                                        illustrate
                                         Samuel
                                          ijoo-184.0.
                                            received
                                                 and
                                                   the afterwards
                                                       the
                                                        Scholastic,
                                                   Butler,  first
                                                             Head-Master
                                                                  copy
                                                                    Religious,
                                                                    Bishop  of
                                                                       of Theof
             The writing of Dr. Butler s Life involved much corre
        spondence and many visits to Shrewsbury, Eton, Harrow,
         Rugby and many other places to see surviving pupils of
        Dr. Butler, old people of Shrewsbury who remembered
        the headmaster, and relatives of the family and of the
        families of pupils and friends. Butler took a pleasure in
        giving his grandfather's letters and papers to those who
        were interested in possessing them. He gave some to the
        Schools at Shrewsbury, some to St. John's College, Cam
        bridge, some to Rugby School, some to the Vaughan
        Library at Harrow, some to friends who specially cared to
        have them, and all that were over to the British Museum.
        And in 1897 he gave the MS. of his book to the Shrews
        bury Free Library.
             The points that interested him particularly in the Life
        were the correspondence with Baron Merian, the letters of
        Tillbrook, Dr. Butler's Aeschylus, and the two extraordi
        nary stories of The Fortunate Youth and The Mystery
        of Owen Parfitt. Beyond all these, however, he was
        interested in the character of Dr. Butler and the strained
        and, one would have thought, impossible relations that for
        thirty-seven years subsisted between him and his second
        master, Jeudwine, as to which something has already been
       said (ante, I. p. 9). Let me here quote from the Life
        (I. 42) a sentence referring to Jeudwine :
            Even though Dr. Butler had not changed the face of public
       school education from one end of England to the other ; though
       he had never created a great school and turned out a brilliant band
       of scholars, the foremost of whom, no doubt, in some respects
       surpassed himself; even though he had done nothing but command
       his temper so admirably for so many years, I should still have
       thought no pains I could bestow upon his memory so great as that
       memory deserved.
             The Rev. S. Tillbrook, whose letters are among the best
       in the book, married late, and his daughter was a posthumous

xxxv                               TILLBROOK                                   253
child. She married Thomas Frederic Inman, a solicitor of 1896
Bath. Mrs. Inman saw Butler's book and got into com- Aet- 6o
munication with him through Mr. Murray. Soon after this
I was staying at Bath with my friend, Dr. King Martyn,
and found that he knew Mr. and Mrs. Inman. Butler
came down to Bath from Saturday to Monday while I was
there, and Dr. Martyn took us to call on them. Although
her father was a contemporary of Dr. Butler, Mrs. Inman
was not many years older than Butler, and was much
affected to see and speak with one who, if he had not
and could not have known Mr. Tillbrook, was nevertheless
familiar with his character from his letters.
       After Mrs. Inman's death, her son, Mr. Arnold
Inman, lent me two letters written by Dr. Buder to Mr.
Tillbrook which are here reproduced. The reader should
be reminded that both Dr. Buder and Mr. Tillbrook were
devoted to fishing. The first has no postmark. Ap
parently it was sent by hand, Dr. Butler being at Lowood
"in this neighbourhood."
                                              I
        [Address]
                            W. Wordsworth's
                            The     Rev. S. Head.
                                    Rydal               Esq.,
                                                Tillbrook,
        Come Bacchus                                Water-hater
        Thou Jack-ass *                             Piscator
        Bring bottle and glass                      And poacher at times
        We're on gallop                             Jack-catcher
        To Salop                                    And snatcher
        Self, wife, lad and lass.                   Of comical rhymes—
        Trout-killer                                Come sidle
        Maw-filler                                  From Rydal
        Old Isaac's old son                         At Lowood to stay
        Mutton-eater                                This night
       Escheator                                    We invite
       Of stray Joke and pun—                       Lest we go the next day.
            Tuesday 24. July, 1821.                                           S. B.
     1 Used not as a term of reproach but endearment. Vide " P-t-r B-1I."      Great
poetical indulgences arc allowed in thi« neighbourhood. [Note by Dr. Butler.]

     254                THE SOUL OF POETRY
                                        II
1896     [Address]
        [Postmark]             The Rev. S.7 Se
                           Shrewsbury.           7. 1816. 1630.
                                               Tillbrook,
                    Rydal.     Ambleside.     Westmoreland.
          Poet, pike-fisher, farmer, lakist, quixote or by whatever
     polyonymia you be invoked, tell me only one thing ; did you
     receive my answer to your letter ?
        If you are too proud, too lazy, too sulky, too busy
        Like a poet with a fine phrensy rolling in his eye,
        Like a pike-fisher with his rod, like a farmer with his plough,
        Like a lakist in his boat, or like quixote I can't tell how ;
        If you're proud that you're a landholder and own Ivy cottage,
        If you're lazy and in consequence are driv'ling into dotage,
        If you're sulky because you're an old bachelor and fusty,
        If you're busy and so my letter makes you crusty
                         Reply—reply—reply—reply—
                         Or I won't keep the vacancy.
          The above, which, with the exception of one blot upon the
     word " makes," is, or rather at the time I made it was, an extem
     pore dithyrambic is to prove to you that " anch' io son poeta."
          Now I have told you enough for your ay\tvoia and so, lest I
     should be too agreeable, I here end my evocation and invocation.—
     Yours truly,                                                   S. B.
         Shrewsbury, Sift. 7. 1816.
           I think Butler would have given these two letters in
     the Life of his grandfather if he had known of their
     existence. In Ex Voto (p. 34) he gives some rhyming
     entries from the visitors' book of one of the inns at
     Varallo and adds :
          It is a pity the art of writing such pleasing little poems should
     be now so generally neglected in favour of more ambitious com
     positions. Whatever brevity may be as regards wit, it is certainly
     the soul of all agreeable poetry.
           This, of course, was written before he made his dis
     coveries about the authoress of the Odyssey\ a poem which
     cannot be called brief. Readers will remember that in
      The Way of All Flesh (chap, xliv.) there is a stanza which
     was composed by one of Ernest's schoolfellows :

xxxv               FRIENDLY CRITICS                         255
              The dogs of the monks of St. Bernard go            !g96
              To pick little children out of the snow,          Aet. 60
              And round their necks is the cordial gin
              Tied with a little bit of bob-bin.
     The last line has to be read with the stress on the
"of" ; Ernest did not quite like it and tried to mend it,
but couldn't. Butler found among his grandfather's
papers another stanza which wanted no mending :
              The wicked, lurking robber, when
              The harmless traveller passes his den,
              Lays hold of him fast by the tail of his coat
              And robs his money and cuts his throat.
     We know that the stanza about the St. Bernard dogs
was turned into Alcaics at Roughborough (ante, p. 156),
otherwise it might have perished. It is possible that the
other owed its preservation to its having also been the
subject of translation.         The ballad of " Wednesbury
Cocking " would not have been dug up again if Garnett
had not wanted to get hold of the poem in Greek
hexameters (ante, I. 348). And thus we see how he who
cultivates the classics may become vates sacer to him who
throws off fugitive verses.
     Butler received many letters about his book, all very
flattering. He was best pleased with those that showed
sympathy with Dr. Butler and made him feel that he had
succeeded in rescuing his grandfather from oblivion, and in
restoring him to something like his proper place in the
history of public-school education. Among those who
wrote were Dr. Mandell Creighton, Mr. Garnett, and
Professor J. E. B. Mayor. Lord Grimthorpe not only
wrote, he also made notes and sent them to Butler to be
used in a second edition, and invited him to come to tea
and talk them over. Butler went and they spent the after
noon together and often saw each other afterwards. They
had met forty-five years before when Butler was a boy of
fifteen and Lord Grimthorpe was on a visit to the vicar of
Meole Brace, near Shrewsbury. Lord Grimthorpe was so
particularly interested partly because he had himself in 1868
published the life of his father-in-law, John Lonsdale (1777-
1867), who was consecrated Bishop of Lichfield in 1843.

         256            BUTLER'S NORMAL DAY                           xxxv
                              Butler to Hans Faesch.
 1896        23 Oct. 1896 — I think I may say that it [The Life and
Act. 60 Litters of Dr. Butler~\ has been very well received in the quarters
        where I can alone expect people to be interested in the book at
        all. It is addressed chiefly to headmasters of public schools,
        fellows of colleges at Oxford and Cambridge, and the academic
        world in general. We are all very much gratified by the reception
        the book has met with.
            This evening I shall finish my final revision of the Iliad
        which will then be ready for the press at any moment. Jones
        is reading it and seems to like it very much. I have still got
        twelve books of the Odyssey to revise, but this will not be a long
       job. Then will come the difficult part—I mean the getting a
        publisher to take the book.
                             Butler to Remi Faesch.
            15 Nov. 1896—And now to answer your question as to
       how I spend my day. I get up about 7 and immediately, in my
       night-shirt, go into my sitting-room and light my fire. I put
       the kettle on and set some dry sticks under it so that it soon
       heats enough to give me warm water for my bath. At 8 I
       make my tea and cook my breakfast—eggs and bacon, sausages,
       a chop, a bit of fish or whatever it may be, and by 8.30 I have
       done my breakfast and cleared it all away.
            Then I read the Times newspaper which takes me about
       40-45 minutes. At 9.15 I do whatever little bit of work I can
       till Alfred comes at 9.30 and tells me all about the babies and
       whatever else interests him. We arrange what he is to do for
       the morning and I get away to the British Museum as quickly
       as I can ; I am there always about 10. 15- 10.30, according as I
       have any marketing to do or no.
            I work at the Museum till 1, still at my Homer which is
       done now, all but about eight days' work. Then I go out and
       dine either at home or at a restaurant, but I never have more
       than one plate of meat and vegetables and no soup or sweets. I
       find the less I eat the better for me. Alfred and I generally
       waste half an hour or so till about 2.30 or 3, settling this, that,
       or the other.
            From 3 till 5 or 5.30 I write letters or work at home while
       Alfred typewrites for me, either my Homer or notes for my
       commonplace book or whatever it may be, and at 4 we always
       have a cup of tea together.
            At 5.30 I have my real tea which consists generally of a bit

 xxxv             BUTLER'S NORMAL DAY                            257
 of fish and bread and butter and after that I may smoke. I may , g96
 smoke after 4, if anyone comes or if I have to go calling any- Att. 60
 where, but never otherwise.
     From 6-8 I am alone and quiet, and at present I still go on
 with my Homer, but in a little while I hope to be able to get to
 my music again and finish my very difficult chorus which I
 have long put on one side while completing my Homer. The
 words are :
       " Now let your trumpets pointing heavenward blow
                 Till Jove the mighty music hears
              And, laughing, bends his head to see
              How that which was still is and still shall be,
                 How right triumphant in the end appears,
                         How Time's avenging hand
                         Descends at angry heaven's command,
         And baffled might lies low."
     This winds up the oratorio after Ulysses has killed the
suitors.
     Very well. At 8 I almost always go to Jones's, unless he
comes to me ; or we go out to a concert or theatre together,
 unless either of us has to go out to dinner. At 9.30 I leave him,
come home, have some bread and milk, play two games of
patience, smoke a cigarette and go to bed about II. In bed I
always read a scene or two of one of Shakespeare's plays till I find
 myself dropping off to sleep and then good-night.
     There ! that is my normal day ; but on Sundays and
Thursdays I go out for the day, and before I go I fill the coal
scuttle and fetch up water and trim and fill the lamp, etc.,
 because my laundress, the good old woman who makes my bed
and cooks for me when I am dining at home, will not have
Alfred to help her. Jones goes out with me on Sundays and
Alfred comes with me on Thursdays ; on Sundays he [Alfred]
does not come at all [to Clifford's Inn].
     Then there are also exceptions when I have to go and waste
my afternoon paying calls ; but my normal day is pretty much
the same always, and I assure you it is a very happy one. Alfred
is to me half son, half nurse, always very dear friend and play
mate rather than work-fellow—in fact he is and has been for the
last ten years my right-hand ; while in Jones I have a friend the
like of whom I shall never see again if anything were to happen
to him—which Heaven avert.
     Now I think I have answered your question, you dear, good
fellow so fully that you shall not be able to say that I am " ferm "
any longer.
     VOL. II                                                  S

        258                        MEAT                        xxxv
  1896       After Butler's death in 1902 I wrote a memoir of
Act. 60 j^ wnich appeared in The Eagle, Dec. 1 902, and was
        revised and prefixed to The Humour of Homer (191 3).
        In that memoir as originally written is an account of a
        day in Butler's life which I composed in collaboration
        with Alfred.     It differs in essentials only very slightly
        from the account written by Butler in this letter to Remi
        Faesch, of which I knew nothing at the time. Butler may
        have told me in 1896 that he had written it, but if he
        had shown me the letter I should not have forgotten it.
             The marketing that he did on his way to the Museum
        was ordering his meat from a butcher in Fetter Lane.
        He used to laugh and say he must be of a very forgiving
        disposition to go on dealing with this butcher when there
        were plenty of others in the neighbourhood. The name
        painted over the shop was Darwin.
             Sometimes he bought cooked meat, twopence-half
        pennyworth of round, at the ham and beef shop in Fetter
        Lane kept by Mrs. French.          He once got talking to
        Mrs. French about art.        He told her that he was a
        painter, and when he said he had exhibited his work she
        rather sniffed and said she did not "hold with the
        pictures in the National Gallery."
             On the three days of the week that he dined in
        Clifford's Inn, Pauli used to come over from his chambers
        in Lincoln's Inn and lunch with him ; and that was why
        he had to order his meat and have his lunch at home,
        instead of in a restaurant.      In New Zealand, and for
        some years after he had settled in London, he used to
        smoke a great deal, but, believing it to be bad for him,
        he took to cigarettes, instead of pipes, and gradually
        smoked less and less till he reduced the number to seven
        a day ; he made it a rule not to begin before some
        particular hour which he gradually pushed later and
        later.
             The chorus " Now let your trumpets " is the final
        chorus in Ulysses, and the words from " How right
        triumphant " to the end are set to music on a ground-
        bass. This gave a great deal of trouble and he used to
        say to Rockstro :

 xxxv                       BRANCKER                           259
      " In this ground-bass chorus I intend to put forth all 1896
 my weakness."                                                      Aet- 6l
      When any one expostulated with him about cooking
his own breakfast and fetching his own water, he replied
that it was good for him to have a change of occupation ;
 this was partly the fact, but the real reason, which he
could not tell every one, was that he shrank from in
conveniencing anybody ; he always paid more than was
 necessary when anything was done for him and was not
happy then unless he did some of the work himself.
                      Butler to Hans Faesch.
     20 Nov. 1896—The reception of my Life of Dr. Butler
continues most favourable, so far as the critics and reviews go ;
but I shall have to sell a good many more copies than I am likely
to get rid of before I clear my expenses. That, however, is a
matter of less importance ; the great thing is that the book should
be approved of.
     I think I told you that the Queen has been graciously pleased
to desire that her best thanks should be conveyed to me. The
Master and Fellows of St. John's College, Cambridge, have also
been pleased to pass a special vote of thanks to me for the copy
I sent them. Mr. Gladstone sent me a postcard of which I
enclose a copy ; I do not want it again. The old gentleman
evidendy liked the book.
      Mr. Gladstone's postcard (26th October 1896) refers
to one of Dr. Butler's triumphs {Life of Dr. .Butler,
I. 252). In 1 83 1 a boy in the sixth form at Shrewsbury,
in jacket and turn-down collar, went up to Oxford and
took the Ireland scholarship against the whole university.
Mr. Gladstone wrote : " Mr. Brancker beat Dean Scott
along with me. As solamina victis the University gave
each of us two a handsome set of books." And as a
consequence it was said that Oxford changed her regula
tions so as to protect her alumni from being beaten by
schoolboys ; but Butler did not verify this statement.
                      Butler to Hans Faesch.
     ly Dec. 1896— I have had rather a disappointment in Murray
(the publisher of Dr. Butler) refusing to publish my translations

        26o                        THE SICANS                           xxxy
  1*96 of the Iliad and Odyssey at his own risk. He says he has felt
Aet. 61 the pulse of the booksellers and they do not think the public
        would buy them ; so, having got them ready for press, I have
        tied them up in a parcel and am just beginning a popular book
        about the Iliad and the Odyssey generally. Murray thinks that
        if I do this I shall have a better chance with my translations.
             To-day Alfred and I have been for a walk from Harrow to
        Wembley and Kingsbury. We always go out on a Thursday
        but it was very cold and foggy with a thick white frost hanging
        from the trees and all over the grass. The lies I have to tell
        now to get even three or four new-laid eggs are something awful
        and then I have to pay twopence apiece for them. I shall be so
        glad when the shortest day is over.
             You will have seen all about the [Brighton] chain pier's
        tumbling down. Was it not spiteful of it to immediately go and
        attack the other pier and break it in two with the wreckage
        which it sent against it ? And then they say that the inorganic
        world has no intelligence ! You will also see in the papers all
        about the earthquake. We felt nothing of it in London, though
        it seems it was felt by some few. It seems to have been worst
        in the Midland counties.
                          Butler to S. H. Burbury, F.R.S.
             Dec. 20th, 1896—I quite admit the force of your argument
        that a writer will not make his work flatly contradict the ex
        perience of his hearers, but I do not think the introduction of
        Cyclopes and Laestrygonians into Sicily does this.
             According to my view, which I base entirely on Thuc. vi. 2
        as the most reliable source I can get, there were, say about
        B.C. 1000, several races on the Lilyboean promontory, or rather
        on Mt. Eryx and its neighbourhood.
             There were the Sicans, who had been there from time
        immemorial and who seem to have been at one time the main
        possessors of the island.
             Before them, according to the same writer, the Cyclopes and
        the Laestrygonians were a still earlier race ; but Thucydides
        says he can tell nothing about them and regards the Sicans,
        who he tells us came originally from Spain, as the earliest historic
        inhabitants.
             Now, according to me, the Cyclopes and Laestrygonians are
        none other than the Sicans themselves to whom the writer of the
        Odyssey gave these names ; and the reason why Thuc. could say
        nothing about them is because they never existed except in a
        work of fiction.
             I imagine the writer of the Odyssey to have belonged to the

 XXXV                                   GIANTS                                   261
 Asiatic colonists who migrated to this part of Sicily from the 1896
 Troad and were joined by certain Phocaeans {not Phocians) see Aet- 6l
 pp. 5, 6 of my second Italian pamphlet.1 The writer of the
 Odyssey belonged to this Phocaean body, who, no doubt, brought
 the Iliad with them. She hates her own countrymen, the
 episode of Proteus being, I do not doubt, introduced solely to
 insult them :
                                                   Tetpc yap aivws
                     <f><i>Ko.(ov 2 aXiorpecj>(wv dAowraros oS/iij.
                     [tfxaKrjtav]
                     ti's yap k tivakitf trapa Kijrei Koip.i)8(it) ,'
                                                              Od. iv. 441-443-
      This must be connected with Od. vi. 275, etc. where
 Nausicaa describes how her countrymen blamed her for turning
 up her nose at them and not marrying one of them.
      This last may be too speculative—cut it out, then, and let
 me begin again. The writer according to me belonged to this
 Phocaean body, and she has peopled her own neighbourhood
 mainly with the ordinary men and women whom we meet with
 in Scheria and Ithaca ; over and above these, however, there were
the remnant of the old Sicans who had been routed in the time
of Nausicaa's great-grandfather {Od. vii. 56, etc.) and who were
called Giants on account of the gigantic stones with which their
 walls were built—stones which still remain in situ both at Eryx
and at Cefalu : see illustration in my second Italian pamphlet.
      The dislike between the two races, the Asiatic and Sican,
was very great. It still exists. The people on the top of Mt.
 Eryx and the people of Trapani hate one another, hence the
poetess introduces them as savage monsters.
      Pray ask Mr. Powers to give me back my pamphlets unless
he really wants them. If he wants them for serious study by
all means let him keep them.
      I am afraid . I have not made myself very clear, but will
endeavour to be clearer in the book which I am about writing.
                    Butler to S. H. Burbury, F.R.S.
      Dec. 22, 1896.— If you were not confined to the house with a
cold, which I am sorry to learn has not left you, I should hardly
    1 The Italian pamphlets referred to in these letters to Burbury are enumerated in
the Bibliography printed at the beginning of this Memoir. The substance of them was
incorporated in The Author ess of the Odyttey.
    * Under tpuKauv, which is the word in the text, Butler has written in square
brackets ipuKtjar. Cf. The Authoress, pp. 219-220.

        262                    ACTUAL SICILY                            xxxv
 1896 venture to trouble you further with my speculations ; as it is,
Aet. 61 however, I will chance one more letter before I start for my Xmas
        outing to-morrow.
             You say, " I do not see that any of the nautical prodigies . . .
        necessarily took place in or near Sicily except the Cattle of
        the Sun."
             I will not argue this point, but should wish to place on record
        that I differ from you in toto. If I did not find myself in
        exorably driven to conclude : 1. that the Odyssey deals invariably
        with actual places ; and 2. that those places are on the coast, or
        on islands adjacent to the coast of Sicily, I should never have
        ventured to say what I have said. Having turned the question
        over and over in my mind and attempted many a different answer to
        it, I have found myself easily beaten off from all others, while the
        answer that I have settled down to gives me satisfaction—rightly
        or wrongly—and quiets me. I say this in spite of the profound
        respect I have alike for your scholarship and acumen, but I should
        not venture to do so if I had not focussed my attention on the
        Odyssey for the last six years in a way that I question whether any
        one else has had the leisure or inclination to do.
              You say that " all the story from Circe's island onwards "
        seems to you to be " a yarn spun by some old salt to the writer of
        the Odyssey." I agree with you so far as this, that the writer got
        her information about everything beyond the island of Aeolus
        (which in clear weather is visible from Mt. Eryx) to the Cattle of
        the Sun from Trapanese sailors ; and as regards the Wandering
         Rocks her information is obviously missing. Twice does she
        scuttle over them in a way that makes it clear that she does not
         know where to place them. Pantellaria, which I make the island
        of Calypso—guided thereto by the sailing instructions given by
         Calypso to Ulysses—is also sometimes, though rarely, visible
         from Mt. Eryx. But I differ from you inasmuch as I am con
         vinced that the writer went to the sailors for definite information
         about certain points which she meant to introduce, instead of
         merely taking sailors' stories told to her at random. But I will
         not argue this point either.
              That there was an element of burlesque about the inception of
         the poem I do not doubt, and have insisted on it somewhat fully
         in my [pamphlet on the] Trapanese Origin (preface p. 18) but
         this had dropped off by the end of Bk. viii. and in the voyages of
         Ulysses I think she is only piling it on.
              I am sure you will not press irXoirjj (Od. x. 3) to be a
         moveable island—any more than you would the Oofio-tv of xv. 299.
         Hkwrjj only means an island that seems to float upon the waters.
         It does not move or appear to do so during the month Ulysses
         stayed there—nor yet during his voyage to Ithaca and back.

xxxv                  IDENTIFICATION                          263
    And now for your two questions. You ask me how I 1896
explain [x. 86] fyyvs yap vdktos t« kcu Tj/xa-ros tUri Kekevdoi (I "et- "*
got the accents out of the book)—I translate : " For the ways
of the night and of the day are near to one another " and I take
the passage to mean simply that the people in that place work
much the same by night as they do by day—a piling-it-on way of
saying " they are very hard-working people."
    The dvroXal 'HtXioio [xii. 4] (accents from the book), I take
to mean simply this : " We left the dark sunless land of the
Cimmerians and the regions of the dead and returned to places
where there is dawn and sunrise as in other places."
    There ! Liberavi animam meam. I am just beginning my
book in which I deal fully with all these matters and your letters
have been of great use to me as showing me the sort of objection
that I shall have to meet.
    All in my mind turns on the question whether both Scheria
and Ithaca can be so identified with Trapani as to leave no
reasonable doubt that the writer was drawing both places from
Trapani and its immediate neighbourhood. If I fail here I fail
altogether, but it seems to me that the amount of evidence I can
adduce is conclusive.

                            CHAPTER XXXVI
                                    1897—Part I
                   THE AUTHORESS OF THE ODYSSEY
 1897 The "popular book about the Iliad and the Odyssey
Aet. 61 generally^' referred to in Butler's letter to Hans Faesch of
        17th December 1896, was Butler's chief occupation now,
        and appeared as The Authoress of the Odyssey later in the
        year. He wrote to Hans, 14th January 1897, that he
        had begun it and also that Queen Elizabeth at Harrow
        Weald was dead. " I got 9 new-laid eggs to-day without
        having to tell a single lie. The hens are beginning to lay
        again."
             In March 1897, Butler received from Mr. W. E.
        Heitland of St. John's College, Cambridge, who had been
        at school at Shrewsbury and remembered Butler's aunt,
        Mrs. Lloyd at the Whitehall, two or three copies of The
        Eagle containing a review by him of The Life and Letters
        of Dr. Samuel Butler.
                          Butler to Mr. W. E. Heitland.
             19 March 1897—I received your very kind present and letter
        last night and thank you very cordially for the review of my
        book, which I may say quite truly is the most gratifying that any
        book of mine has yet met with, if for no other reason yet for
        this, that it convinces me I have done that which it was my most
        earnest desire to do—i.e. show Dr. Butler in his true colours and
        attract my readers to him as he assuredly—and his friends—
        attracted me to himself.
             Take old Lord Grimthorpe who is not a very easy man to
        please—he said to me the other day :
                                        364

xxxvi                    PAGET'S BOOK                           265
       answered
    I"What   made   youI had
                 that    set about
                              found that
                                     the book ? " fascinate me.
                                         character                  189761
                                                                To Aet.
which he replied :
     "Well, to say the truth so it did me."
     If such men as yourself, Professor Mayor, Lord Grimthorpe,
John Murray, and others are as much attracted to the character
as I cannot doubt they are, what more can I desire?
     I found very few family letters. . . . But there are a few
letters to his mother and to his uncle, Samuel Butler, which
reflect the highest credit upon him. It was these last, written I
think about 1806, which brought me to his feet in the first
instance, for, until his correspondence fell into my hands, I had a
decided prejudice, how or whence derived I know not, as though
he had been a man of the Kennedy stamp, only that if Kennedy
were whips Dr. Butler had been scorpions. I trust, however,
that his shade will forgive me and consider my distrust of him
atoned for. . . . My translations of the Iliad and Odyssey are
long since completed, but I can get no publisher to take them.
My book upon the Odyssey will, I hope, be finished in another
three weeks or so and, come what may, I shall publish it. I
really believe myself to have been duly cautious throughout my
arguments. I wish poor old Dr. Butler were alive. He would
have listened to what I have to say with some attention. How
ever we must wait and see.
      At this time Butler was corresponding with the Rev.
J. Russell Jackson of Moulton Vicarage, Spalding, about
an old scrap-book. They write of it as " Paget's book,"
and it was given to Mr. Jackson as a mark of friendship
by Miss Paget. I gather that Jackson and Paget were
both Shrewsbury boys, that Paget compiled the book,
and that its contents related to the school. Jackson sent
the book to Butler, who sent it to his friend Mr. Phillips,
of Shrewsbury, who consulted with Dr. Calvert, one of
the masters of the school, as to whether it should be
given to the school or to the town or held back for the
present.
             Butler to the Rev. J. Russell Jackson.
     1 April 1897—I have put two or three small notes, as that
"S. B. Dec. 3, 1852" under one of the caricatures of Dr.
K[ennedy] is the present writer. I have also briefly adnotated
George's penal, out of which no one without explanation would
be rfble to make anything at all, and the sketch of the bedroom

         266               OVERDOING RETICENCE                           xxxvi
 1*97 with "Measles" written under it. I thought it better to leave
Aet. 61 no doubt that this was what the school beds were like before the
         change of buildings.
               I see in one of the steeplechases I bear the not very attractive
         name of "Backbiter." I have neither adnotated it nor yet
         felt the slightest inclination to suppress it. What can it
         matter ! . . .
               Pray remember me very kindly to your brother Fred when
         next you write to him. He was one of my boyish idols, and it
        seems to me that I showed more judgement in my choice than I
         have often shown since. However, we are all growing old, and for
        my own part I am happier in the days of my white beard than
        ever I was when I had a black one. Mutatis mutandis, I trust
        that you feel the same and may long continue to do so.
                                Butler to Mr. Phillips.
              13 April 1897—I have both your letters of Ap. 10 and 11,
        and should have answered the second of them by this evening's
        post, but have been out for the day and returned too late to
        catch it.
              I cannot understand Dr. Calvert's objections — he tells me
        you have seen his letter to me or I would send it—but it would
       seem possible to obviate them by deferring the exhibition of the
        book for, say, ten or fifteen years, a date which he has mentioned
        as possibly removing his objections.
             When people make omelettes they must break eggs, and some
       one or other is sure to find something he would rather see
       omitted in any record of any period, but history cannot be
       written on any other terms ; and, though serious matters that
       touch honour or character will be omitted, or handled as con
       siderately as possible, by anyone of ordinary right feeling,
       reticence, like every other good quality, may be overdone, and I
       think in this case our good friend Dr. Calvert is inclined to
       overdo it.
             I, for instance, was not altogether pleased that Mr. Apperly
       should have placed it on record that Dr. Butler was of mean
       appearance, churlish in manner, and voted a snob by his more
       wealthy schoolfellows ; but though I did not like it, nor believe
       it, I did not think it well to exclude it. I am not pleased that
       Mr. Clodd, within the last month or two, should have called
       Dr. B. " a desiccated pedagogue " ; but I have not said anything
       to him about it. I was much shocked that Munro should have
       written that Dr. B. left the school in a very poor state as regards
       Greek scholarship, and that Kennedy should have held his peace ;
       but, after consultation with Mr. Moss, I passed it over, and I do

xxxvi      CONSIDERATION FOR OTHERS                           267
not believe anyone would gather from my book what my real 1897
opinion of Kennedy is.                                             Aet- 6l
    Again, it is not particularly grateful to my feelings to be
instrumental in the putting before the public a list in which I
appear as " Backbiter " ; but I should not dream of objecting to
Paget's book being put before the world at large on that account.
If I thought there was anything which, say, Mr. Murray would
consider likely to give reasonable and unnecessary pain in Paget's
book, I should be with Dr. Calvert in a moment ; but I read it
very carefully and the only doubt I had was whether it was worth
any museum's while to keep, for, to speak plainly, the humour is
of the thinnest.
     However, the book shall not go into the School Library if I
can help it, and, if you think it worth putting into the Free
Library, I should say keep it till I can come down and see the
things which Dr. Calvert objects to ; we may hit on some
compromise.
    In the meantime I will write at once to Jackson, who is one
of the very best men I know, or ever have known, and send
him both your letters and Dr. Calvert's. He will, I daresay,
write to you and perhaps take the matter into his own hands,
which would be as well, for the book is his, not mine.
     I was to have started to-morrow but am delayed by the
untoward sharp but not serious illness of my friend Jones, who
was to go with me.
    I think I told you I have left my book about the Odyssey in
Mr. Murray's hands. I wonder what his reader will think
about it. What a long letter I have written all about a very
small matter 1
                      Butler to Dr. Calvert.
     15 April 1897—I tried hard to answer your letter yesterday
evening as well as our friend Mr. Phillips's, but was obliged to
put it off, and now I have not got it by me, for I sent it to
Jackson with Mr. Phillips's that he might know what you both
think.
    I must confess I saw nothing that struck me as likely to give
pain, nor, we may be sure, did Jackson, a man with all his
brother's sterling qualities and more ability as well as vivacity.
We know Mr. Phillips saw nothing—still you may have noted
something that we have passed over and none of us, any more
than yourself, would wish to wound anyone's feelings. Perhaps
it is because I have so often for so many years seen myself so
savagely handled—for some of my reviews have been as fierce
as any that I have ever seen, and rarely indeed have I had any

        268         .     APIUM GRAVEOLENS                          xxxvi
 1897 such friendly ones as several of my Life of Dr. Butler—perhaps it
Aet. 61 is for this reason that, having become thick-skinned myself, I
        suppose that other people are or should be so also. But, however
        this may be, I have asked Jackson to take the matter into his
        own hands and communicate directly with yourself and Mr.
        Phillips. Should you wish to write to him his address is
                           Moulton
                         The        J.
                                    Vicarage,
                                       R. Jackson,
                              Rev.Lincolnshire.       J.P.,
                                               Spalding,
        He is rural dean of Offen (I think) and has been for many years
        chairman of the County Sessions for the district in which he
        lives, but I know nothing about such matters.
             Mr. Paget was alive in the early part of 1862, for he wrote
        me about the death of the Prince Consort which occurred 14th
        December 1861, and this had happened at least a month, so far as I
        can remember, before he wrote to me.
             He died before August 1864, for in that year I returned
        from New Zealand, and I have a strong impression that he was
        then no longer living. However I will hunt it up on my return
        from Sicily.
              On 1 6th April Butler and I left London for Sicily.
        We stayed at the same places as the year before and also
        went to Girgenti. At Selinunte are the ruins of the
        temples of Selinus, a city that flourished between circa 628
        and 409 B.C. Its name is supposed to have been derived
        from the Greek word for a kind of wild parsley, or wild
        celery, a leaf of which is figured on some of the coins
        of Selinus. The plant is believed to be identical with
        the Apium graveolens of botanists which now no longer
        grows actually at Selinunte, but Professor Sciascia, of
        Castelvetrano, procured some from a muddy little stream
        a few miles inland, and Butler established it from seed in
        the garden of Lincoln's Inn Fields where he used to watch
        it coming up as he passed on his way from his rooms in
        Clifford's Inn to the British Museum. See his letter, 13th
        July 1 90 1, and letters frbm Sir George Birdwood and
        John Sargeant, 20th July 1901, in The Athenaeum. The
        two barristers at Ypres referred to in the first of the two
        following notes occur in The Note-Books of Samuel Butler,
         1912.

xxxvi              MONSIEUR FREEMAN                               269
          The F.our Frenchmen at Castelvetrano                          "897
                                                                       Aet. 61
     Last spring, Jones and I were at Castelvetrano partly to pay
another visit to Selinunte, and partly to receive from Prof. Sciascia
some specimens of the wild celery from which Selinunte derives
its name. I wanted these for Hill of the Coin Room, British
Museum, who wished me to send him a plant of it—neither of us
knowing that it is quite common in the South of England.
     At the table d'hote there were four Frenchmen, gentlemen
and, seemingly, of the literary, professional, academic confraternity.
One of these was at the head of the table, the three others were
on one side, and Prof. Sciascia, Jones and myself on the opposite
side. They would not deign to look at us. They were just like
the two barristers whom Gogin and I met years ago at Ypres,
whose looks towards us said : " If you so much as ask us to pass
the mustard we shall shoot you."
     Of course we did not ask them to pass the mustard nor did we
make any advance to them ; we talked among ourselves and they
among themselves: But, later in the evening, there suddenly
entered a little sunburnt boy, not four feet high, with a huge
plant of celery, ever so much higher than he was. He came into
the room, snorting with childish trepidation, and I at once rose
towards him to give him some coppers and take the celery.
Sciascia saw what I was intending, flew towards me to stop my
paying anything, and a friendly fracas ensued while the little
brown boy stood stock still, holding his great plant.
     The Frenchmen could not make it out, and I thought it
incumbent upon me to explain briefly what it was all about.
They mollified at once at the name of the British Museum and
entered into conversation. What did I think of Freeman's <S/V/7y ?
I said, doubtless in bad French, but that did not matter, that I
did not like the book, and fired off a remark which I concocted
once about Cuvier :
     " Monsieur Freeman est grand dans les petites choses et petit
avec les grandes." I suppose they thought this was impromptu,
but I could see that it impressed them. I added : " Besides if
Mr. Freeman is right about the earliest history of Sicily, my own
ideas concerning it are wrong."
     They asked what my ideas were. I told them that I believed
the Odyssey was written at Trapani, and added, laughingly, that I
had a still worse heresy than this for I believed it to be written by
a woman.
    They asked why. I replied that it was too long a story to
go into in detail, but gave a few of my reasons. They seemed
puzzled but extremely interested.
     " And the Iliad I Is that written by a woman ? "

        270                 "C'EST TRES BIEN"                                 xxxvi
 189;61 the "Odyssey
Aet.                 cannot
               Certainly not have
                              ; thebeen
                                     samewritten
                                            reasonsbywhich     prevent me
                                                      a manconvince            that
                                                                           me from
        thinking that the Iliad was written by a woman."
              You have studied the subject carefully and for some time ? "
            " Certainly."
              And what
            " They             it, and will
                     laughdoatEnglish  scholars
                                            not say
                                                looktoatyour  opinion
                                                         it ; j'ai tout ?le" monde
        contre moi."
            K Mais," at once replied the foremost of them, " mais c'est
        bien, c'est tres bien," and the others assented.
            Feeling that I could not close the discussion at a better point,
        I discovered that it was bed-time and the party broke up.
            Next morning they were just like the barristers at Ypres of
        whom Gogin said that, repellent as they had been overnight, in
        the morning they perched on our fingers and pecked crumbs out
        of our hands. Neither of us made out their names and Jones,
        who watched the whole affair, greatly amused, said that I behaved
        quite properly all through. [1897.]
                                     COLLESANO
            Last spring, Jones and I, having left Palermo the night before,
        took a very early morning train from Termini to Campo Felice
        whence we went in the public conveyance up to Collesano, Dr.
        Paolo Orsi, of Siracusa, having told us that there were some pre
        historic remains there which we ought to see [ The Authoress,
        p. 184].
            When the omnibus started from Campo Felice, we were out
        side on a seat that ran across the vehicle just behind the driver
        who was one of the handsomest young men that I ever saw, aged
        about 19, lithe and quick as a cat and, I should say, as unreliable
        and not so clean. It was a lovely morning about the end of May ;
        the ride inland towards the mountains was through an enchanting
        country, innumerable goldfinches flitted about among the flowers
        by the road side, nothing could be more enjoyable, and the driver
        made friends with us at once and began to sing. He sang
        " La vita e un dolor se tu m' abbandona." He certainly said
        " abbandona " ; he must have repeated the line two or three
        hundred times, always to the same wailing and semi-, or more
        than semi-barbarous melody. Every other minute, out it came at
        the top of his voice which, as Jones said, was choking with
        emotion and yesterday's garlic. He was like a half-tamed panther,
        an absolutely pagan creature but, as I have said, of the most extra
        ordinary physical beauty which was nevertheless repellent, rather
        than attractive, by reason of its heartlessness. As for morals, I
        should not think he knew the meaning of the word.

  xxxvi                        FAME                                271
      After he had chanted his refrain about la vita very many times, ,807
  I asked him if there was any second line. He said there was, but Aet. 61
  that he had not yet had time to study it ; he would do so and, if
  we came again, he would sing it to us ; for the present we must
  be contented with the one line that he knew. Before long we
  began to unpack the provisions we had brought with us which,
 happily, were enough for three, for we had expected Peppino
  Pagoto who, however, had missed our train in which he ought to
 have come to Termini from Palermo. Our driver no sooner saw
 the provisions than he began to say that he must have some, and
 the moment he saw my horn drinking-cup he said that, if I chose,
  I was at liberty to make him a present of it. He had no more
 conscience or scruple than a magpie. Then he saw Jones's
 drinking-cup and said he would rather have that than mine and,
 it being plain that we should have no peace till we had given it to
 him, we let him have it ; but I had some work to make him give
 me back mine. He did not thank us for the cup nor yet for the
 hearty meal with which we stuffed him. He liked both cup and
 meal, but they were things of course and to be taken accordingly.
      The ride lasted between three and four hours and very lovely
 it was. About noon we reached Collesano which must be, I
 should think, some 1700 ft. above the sea. Here we found a lad
 who said he knew where the old walls were and, accordingly, took
 us to the mediaeval castle which was not at all what we wanted.
 We therefore turned back and, seeing some signori seated at a
 table outside a place that looked like the circolo of the village, we
 went up to them, presented our cards and stated our business. I
 was surprised and pleased to find that no sooner had I given my
 card than I was asked if I was the Mr. Butler who had written
about the Odyssey ; on admitting that this was so, we were treated
with the greatest cordiality and our guide instructed where to
take us.
     We returned about a kilometre on the road back to Campo
Felice and then began to climb, the path presently losing itself
and the climbing becoming steep and by no means easy for an
elderly gentleman. After about an hour we came upon the
remains of buildings ; all were of stone and apparently built
without mortar ; there were many of them, but little above the
ground-plan was left standing though, in some cases, there was
as much as a metre or a metre-and-a-half, so near as my recollec
tion will serve. It was very unpleasant ground to walk over.
We saw no trace of a city wall ; all that remained were house
walls. The highest building we saw was a Christian chapel in
ruins—greatly later in date than the houses down below, built
with mortar and showing the remains of a small apse at the East
end. 1 cannot date these remains nor have any confidence in

                                                              ..   !¦« ^^"^
         272            BRIGANDS AND WOMEN                            xxxvi
 1897 saying to what people they belong, but they appeared to me to
Aet. 61 have been built before 1 000 B.C. rather than since, to be probably
         Sican and, at any rate, not Phoenician.
              When we got down to Collesano, the climb having taken us
        about three hours, Prof. Tamburello, one of the signori at the
        circolo, met us with a bottle of his best wine. We were
        honoured with a paragraph in the Giornale di Sicilia for May
        27, 28, 1897, announcing our visit to Collesano. [1897.]
              On our way back from Sicily we separated in North
        Italy, Butler going to Casale and afterwards to S. Pietro
        in the valley of Susa on the Mont Cenis route, where he
        sketched and occupied himself with the book which he
        had already begun to write upon Shakespeare's Sonnets.
        He returned via Bellinzona and Wassen, writing to me
        from one of these places that he had met an Englishman :
             A 'vert to Rome, such a fool, but he did to amuse me ; a
        wretched creature he was, pining for an ideal life and utterly
        unable to find anything that really came up to his standard of
        how things ought to be, etc. But he said one thing which I
        shall crib. He said: "Brigands demand your money or your
        life, but women demand both." He must have cribbed it from
        some one, so I shall crib it from him.
              When we separated I joined my mother and sisters
       at Geneva and went with them to Homburg. Before
        my return to London I received a letter from Alfred :
                              Alfred to H. F. Jones.
             15 June 1897—Now how are you? I hope quite well and
       strong enough to go through the terrible time of the Jubilee.
        We are in the midst of it now. Everybody and everything is
       Jubilee, in fact Jubilee mad. When do you come home ? Is
        there anything I can do for you ? If so, let me know. London
       seems to be very full of visitors. Foreigners, Colonials and
       country people. Bus- riding is very difficult. Everybody is
       having a ride round to see the preparations. The illuminations
        will be of a very magnificent and elaborate order. My family
       and self are all quite well. Did I tell you that the nipper [his
        son] got lost the other day in Leather Lane and was brought
       home by a policeman ? A little girl recognised him and told the
       policeman, otherwise he would, or rather was being taken to

  xxxvi        HUNTING FOR A PUBLISHER                           273
  King's Cross Police Station. It gave us a very great fright, as 1897
  we thought he might have been stolen by the Saffron Hill organ Aet 61
  grinders.
       Mr. Garnett of the British Museum had told Butler
  that his grandfather's friend Tillbrook had corresponded
  with Southey, but the correspondence appeared to be lost ;
 Professor Mayor had given Butler some information
 about it.
                Butler to Professor J. E. B. Mayor.
      27 "July 1897—I* 's °,u'te possible that some one who reads
 what I have written on p. 83 of Vol. II. of my Life of Dr. Butler
 [saying he would be grateful for more letters by Tillbrook] will
 write and tell me something. I have often found that I gain
 quite as much information by lying in wait as by hunting. I
 used to find this more particularly when I had lost my bullocks
 in New Zealand, and the lesson has stuck by me.
      I am having much trouble with my new book The Authoress
 of the Odyssey—where she wrote, who she was, and as much more
 about her as we can now reasonably hope to discover. It rs
 completed, preface and all, but neither Murray nor Bentley nor
 George Bell will publish it for me even at my expense. They
 like it, but are afraid of its not being taken seriously.
      I need hardly say that I am very much in earnest about it
 myself, and believe it to be much the most important thing that
 I have done. I have been to Trapani again, taking with me the
soberest friend I have, to verify all my statements on the ground
itself. I am satisfied that I am right both as to the sex of the
writer and the place where she lived and wrote ; moreover in
the six years or so since I first began to ventilate the subject,
there has been no attempt to meet my arguments and I am
convinced that something would have reached me, either from
Sicily or from England, if there were anything serious to be said
on the other side. At any rate, as I have said at the end of my
book, whatever the ultimate verdict of scholars may be, I am
satisfied that my case on both my main points is amply strong
enough to justify me in stating it.
     The book is about 300 pp. long and I have written to
Metcalfe, the printer of The Eagle, asking him to print it for me.
Almost two-thirds of it are sobriety itself; the remaining one-
third is, I believe, strictly true, but it will cause great offence,
which I regret, but cannot help.
      Mr. Murray had declined The Authoress in April while
     VOL. on
we were     II our way to Sicily, and Alfred, in forwarding T his

        274                  DISAPPOINTMENT                            xxxvi
 1897 letter, wrote: "I am pulverized with Murray's answer
Aet* 6l and cannot tell you how sorry I am. I did think he
        would have published it." Butler, though disappointed,
        was not " pulverized " because it appeared that Mr.
        Murray had submitted the MS. to "a well-known
        Homeric scholar." Messrs. G. Bell & Sons also declined
        the book.
                       Butler to Messrs. G. Bell rj? Sons.
            23 'July 1897—I understand your objections perfectly; they
        were all of them present to me when I wrote, but I considered
        that if I stated my case in the academic manner I should not
        move the academic people and I should lose the ordinary club
        and cultured women readers who in the long run force the
        academic people to follow them.
            If my case is strong, as I believe you have felt it to be, other
        people will presently feel it so too and, in a matter of such
        importance and interest, the manner will go for nothing. People
        will see fast enough that I am serious though, no doubt, they
        will pretend at first that they believe I am trifling.
            Mr. Prothero's advice to me before I began to write was :
        "Be as wicked as ever you possibly can." I believe the advice
        to have been perfectly sound and, if I could have made my book
        more wicked, I would have done so. Still two-thirds of it is
        sobriety even to dreariness.
            As for my having " distorted the simplicity of the Odyssey" I
        do not think it. I believe I have revealed it, and should be
        deeply shocked if I thought I had taken any liberty with it
        whatever.
            There ! I have met frankness with frankness ; I am very
        sorry you do not undertake the book, but again thank you very
        sincerely for the consideration you have given it.
             " It is," as Butler wrote to Hans Faesch, " much
        easier to write a fairly good book than to find a publisher
        who will take it." The anxiety of hunting, the dis
        appointment when the MS. came back, the delay and
        uncertainty, the impossibility of settling down to the
        next thing he wanted to do—all this was a tedious and
        worrying labour for which he was not suited ; whereas
        the writing of a book was a happiness and a delight that
        engrossed him. The ordinary difficulties of finding a
        publisher are increased when the " fairly good book,"

xxxvi           SERIOUS OR JESTING ?                       275
though perfectly serious, is written in such a manner that 1897
experienced publishers like Murray, Bentley, and George c 6l
Bell are afraid of its not being taken seriously. Butler
knew that his theory was subversive and, remembering
that " a little levity will often save many a good heavy
thing from sinking," intentionally treated the subject in
a way which he hoped would make it attractive. Just as
people were misled by the humour of Yorick in Tristram
Shandy, so they were misled by Butler's "levity," and
could only believe he was serious by supposing that he
took up the theory in jest and then argued himself into
adopting it seriously. Some one, but I have forgotten
who it was, told me that he had actually heard Butler
admit, or go very near to admitting, that this was so.
I never heard him say anything of the kind ; it was
always, from the beginning, serious conviction. Still, he
did sometimes act on the advice he gave to Hans Faesch
in his letter of 31st July 1896 (ante, p. 248), about the
advantages of pretending to agree with those with whom
we differ, hoping that the listener would thereby be
induced to be patient, to think the matter over for
himself, and eventually to see things in their true light.
But the danger of following this advice is that, if you
act on it at all thoroughly, and Butler was apt to do
things very thoroughly, the listener may be deceived and
may thereafter go about asserting that he had been
personally assured of something which really was not
intended to be taken seriously.
     Russell Cooke (Butler's solicitor) had sent him an
article on Maeterlinck written by Mrs. Crawford, the
sister of Mrs. Russell Cooke, and Butler was to give his
views on the article.
                    Butler to Russell Cooke.
     19 August 1897—Of course I like the tone and spirit of the
article and admire the lucidity and sympathy with which it is
written. All this goes as a matter of course, and it would be
waste of time to say more than that I appreciate and am in
sympathy with the generous desire to admire that which is

        276                     MAETERLINCK                            xxxvi
  1897 admirable that pervades the whole of Mrs. Crawford's article
Act. 61 but—to speak quite frankly—I believe, or strongly suspect, that
         she will not think as highly of Maeterlinck in ten years as she
         does now. He has sat at the feet of Plato, Marcus Aurelius,
         Carlyle, and Emerson—I say nothing about Plotinus and Novalis
         for I know no more about them than your clerk Jenkins does.
        The others I have tried and at no such feet can I sit. They
         have no message for me. Plato is the best, his Apology is
        iplendid ; his descriptions of scenery and his episodial (if there is
        such a word) chats with friends on a fresh summer morning are
        delightful ; but, take him all round, my feeling towards him is
         much what I gather Aristophanes to have entertained, and he
        is not for me. Carlyle again is for me too much like Wagner,
        of whom Rossini said that he has des beaux moments mais des
        mauvais quarts d'heure—my French is not to be trusted. Ask
        Mrs. Crawford to read Marcus Aurelius, divesting herself of all
        knowledge that he was Marcus Aurelius, and see what she
        thinks of him. I have never read a line of his that leaves me
        wiser than I was before. These men are not the teachers
        towards whose pupils I instinctively turn ; on the contrary I
        look on their devoted adherents with suspicion.
             Again, Maeterlinck it seems is only 35 years old. I saw
        another enthusiastic article about him in one of the weeklies ten
        days or so ago. Now, true genius cannot so soon be recognized.
        If a man of 35 can get such admiration he is probably a very
        good man, but he is not one of those who will redeem Israel ;
        and at my age I turn to these alone or, at any rate, to such as I
        believe to be these alone.
             There—liberavi animam meam.
             I have got the first slips of the proofs of my Authoress of the
        Odyssey, and the work is, I am happy to say, to be published by
        Longmans, but at my expense. To my surprise he made no
        difficulty about doing it. It is far better that it should come
        from him.
             P.S.—And then there is Ibsen. He may be, and I daresay
        is, a very wonderful man, but. what little I know of him repels
        me and, what is worse, bores me.
              One reason why it was better that the book should
        come from Longmans, even though Butler had to pay all
        the expenses, was that they had published Dr. Butler's
        Geography, and Butler liked returning to the family
        publishers.
              On 1st November 1897, we received the first copy
        of The Authoress of the Odyssey, where and when she wrote,

  xxxvi             INGROJA'S THANKS                              277
 who she was, the use she made of the Iliad, and how the 1897
 poem grew under her hands. The dedication runs thus : Aet' 6l
  " Al Professore Cav. Biagio Ingroja, Prezioso Alleato,
 1' Autore riconoscente."
       The book was to have been dedicated to Emanuele
 Biaggini, but he died shortly before it was issued ; we
 had seen him on his death-bed in the spring at Trapani.
 Butler chose Ingroja as being the one who, after Biaggini,
 had helped him most.
                         Ingroja to Butler.
      My dearest Friend—I have not        any expression
                                       Calatafimi,               want
                                                            and1897.
                                                   27 October,
 words suitables to signify my wonder in reading your most kind
 postcard on 21 instant. The undeserved hight of honour with
 which you regale me, inscribing your justly dearly book to my
poor name and in such a manner joining it to your deserved
renown, way so unexpected and much precious gift that I have
been strongly struck and affected with it and wept for joy
together
title      with my
       of honour     which It
                 in wife.   I will
                               is and
                                   takewill be only
                                         pride       angry
                                               for ever           not •
                                                          my tobetter
deserve it.
     I thank you most heartily my dearest friend—no more friend
but my true brother in love, if you please, for I have not neither
could never meet or find another gentleman so good-hearted and so
dear to my soul on the world.
     My wife send you her kindest regards ; likewise the family
Adamo with Giulio ; the family Mollica with all our friends. Give
our salutations to Mr. Jones and you take an hug from truly
always yours,                                       B. Ingroja.
      Butler, commenting on the conclusion of this letter,
said to me : " It is something to take ' an hug ' from one
who was embraced by Garibaldi."
      The Authoress of the Odyssey consists partly of matter
already published in England and Italy, particulars being
given in the preface to the book. It alsp contains the
substance of various lectures he had delivered while the
theory was growing, some of which are mentioned at their
proper places in this Memoir, others not being mentioned
because they were ephemeral. The book did not meet
with general acceptance. The following notes give an

        278                GARNETTS CAUTION                           xxxvi
 1897 account of Dr. Garnett's attitude on the subject and of
Aet- 61 Butler's treatment of him.
                          Garnett and The Authoress
                                          I
            I gave him a copy of course but, though I have seen him
        several times since, he will not say a word about it. That it has
        disgusted him I do not doubt. The mere bringing of common
        sense to bear upon such a question at all shocks and angers him,
        just as it shocks me to think that people have gone on reading the
        Odyssey for so many centuries without bringing common sense to
        bear upon it. The Iliad, the Odyssey, the Elizabethans en bloc
        and, indeed, all who have reputation as classics live and move,
        according to Garnett, in a region where the writs of common sense
        do not run. As for getting out of him, by way of criticism, any
        thing that might be useful to me, or any correction or suggestion—
        I should be a greater fool than I am if I did not know that he will
        give me nothing. Annoyed I am, because I do not think he is
        treating me with common courtesy ; but I shall let him alone,
        and I have no doubt I shall give him my next book just the same.
        [November 1897.]
                                            II
             I have been a little too hasty in my preceding note, for this
         morning Mr. Garnett came up to me and said that he had been
         reading my book.
             " I must say," he added with much sibilation and much
         bowing of his head backwards and forwards more suo, " that so far
        I have found it more entertaining than convincing."
             I said : " But do you not think I have made out a strong case
        for the view that the poem was written at Trapani ? "
             "Oh yes," with the same bowing of the head, " I think much
        of what you have said on that subject certainly does deserve
        attention. I am not myself in a position to form an opinion
        about it, but      "
             Here I broke in peremptorily: "If the book has not put a man
        of ordinary capacity in a position to form an opinion one way or
        the other on that subject, it has not done what I believe it to
         have done."
             I said this laughingly, but Garnett did not like it ; he had
        not yet finished the volume, when he had done so he might be
        more fully informed.
            I said: "As for its being written by a woman, do you not

 xxxvi                HIS COR FERREUM                           279
 find that at any rate I have more to say for myself than you 1897
 thought I had ? "                                                   Aet. 6a
      He was very grudging, but said : " Yes, I believe I may go so
 far as that," pausing almost between each word as though it was
 being dragged out of him. Thinking that this was for him a
 very great concession, I immediately changed the subject.
      As for giving any reason why he did not find the argument
 convincing—not he. He did not catch hold of a single statement
 I had made and say why he thought it mistaken. I believe I have
 said all that he said. If I could remember more I should put it
 down. [November 1897.]
                                  Ill
      I have the greatest regard, esteem, and admiration for Mr.
 Garnett, but am piqued with him for never giving me a ghost of
 a reason why he is so very hostile to my Odyssean theories, both
 as regards the poem's having been written at Trapani, and the
 authoress having been a woman. I believe myself to be open to
 conviction, if anyone will show me that I have misstated facts,
 drawn unreasonable inferences from them, or overlooked other
 facts which outweigh those that I have alleged and point to a
 different conclusion ; but till some one seriously attempts to do
 this I am immoveable ; and I take it amiss that, if Garnett has
any knowledge in his possession which I have not, he should keep
 it from me. I should consider what he said with all the attention
I could command and he must know that as well as I do. My
belief is that in his heart he knows perfectly well that I am right,
and that he has not got a leg to stand on, but is not going to
admit it. It is useless trying to draw him ; he has a cor ferreum ;
he just won't be drawn and bolts.
     The other Sunday, however, he was at Miss Bertha Thomas's
when Jones and I were calling, and sat between Jones and me.
Miss Thomas turned the conversation on to my book, perhaps a
little wickedly, and said :
     "Well, Mr. Butler, I can at any rate say this much, that I
find myself unable to speak of the writer of the Odyssey except
as 'she.'"
     I answered : " That is exactly what other people have told me.
Whether they like it or not they find the idea stick by them ;
they may kick at it and be as disagreeable about it as they please,
but it will haunt them, and as soon as it has become familiar to
them they will accept it."
     I thought this was enough ; I did not dare look at Garnett,
but Jones said it was very amusing to watch him. [April 1898.]

        i8o                    GARNETT'S SINS
                                         IV
 180762 thatI Iwas
Aet.               so piqued to
                 determined      the way
                             by take  to calling
                                          he behaved
                                                 him to me about
                                                      " Dr."      the book
                                                             Garnett—     he
        being a D.C.L. or an LL.D. of some Scotch University—but I
        did not want him to see that I was doing so on purpose. I have
        always called him " Mr." Garnett so far. At last the opportunity
        came. I had forgotten the details, but Jones has shown me a
        letter of mine to him, from which I extract the following :
                                                             Dec. 7, 1897.
            "Dr. Garnett met me this morning as I was coming out
        of the Museum and was surprisingly gracious. I think last
        Saturday's reviews had impressed him a good deal ; he professed
        to think some of them not unfriendly (it is astonishing what very
        small mercies people expect me to be thankful for) and maintained
        that I had got quite as much support as I could expect considering
        the strangeness of the views I was putting forward. And Wilson,
        too, was very gracious and declared the review in Literature to be
        ' quite friendly.' (Surely the word ' quite ' would not have been
        necessary if the review had been quite friendly.) Something has
        happened, I don't know what, for Dr. Garnett told me a long
        story of an editorial blunder of which he had just been convicted,
        and then capped it with a story of Scotch humour, and said we
        were like the two boys in the story confessing to one another.
             "Then I said with my sweetest smile: 'I am sure Dr.
        Garnett all your sins will be of the most venial description,' and
        emphasized my words by holding up both hands like the old
        servant in ' Marriage a la mode,' and throwing my head back as
        much as to say, ' Yours will be venial enough, but think how
        wicked mine are.' I did it beautifully and got the 'Dr.' in;
        whether he noticed my doing so or no, I cannot say ; what I
        should like best is that he should not know what to think, for
        that is always the most disagreeable.
             " It seems Coleridge wrote a poem which Garnett said was
        founded on an earlier poem, but no one knew where the earlier
        poem was to be found, nor who it was by. Then some German
        said it was probably by one of the Minnesingers, an English editor
        followed him, and Dr. Garnett followed both ; and now it turns
        out that the poem is by Ben Jonson. So, after all, the great
        difference between the Garnett genus and myself is that they do
        not read Ben Jonson and profess to do so, while I do not read
        him and do not profess to do so. Then followed the excru
        ciatingly humourous Scotch story, and we parted friends.
             "A few days afterwards Garnett 'did penance in a white
        sheet ' (to use his own expression to me) in The Athenaeum.

xxxvi              MR. JUSTICE WILLS                           281
Then came a letter from someone else to say that there was an 1897
error in the penance. Garnett may have replied to this, but if so Aet. 62
his letter escaped me." [June 1898.]
     But every one was not of the same opinion as Dr.
Garnett. Here, for instance, is an extract from a letter
to me written by Mr. Justice Wills, with whom, as I have
mentioned above, I had some correspondence after Butler's
death.
                Mr. Justice Wills to H. F. Jones.
    20 February 1903—I was always much interested in his
writings and was one of the few people who took seriously his
book about the Odyssey, which appears to me to be a very power
ful piece of well-reasoned argument and to have deserved at all
events a serious reply. His identification of the scene of the
Odyssey and of the course of the wanderings of Ulysses is, I think,
masterly.

                          CHAPTER XXXVII
                             1897—Part II.     1898
        THE PROBLEM OF THE SONNETS AND THE ILIAD
                  RENDERED INTO ENGLISH PROSE
l897 During the autumn of 1897 I had been overworking
e ' 2 and in December had gone for a rest and change to Nice,
      where I was staying with my mother and sisters.
                            Butler to H. F. Jones.
          4 December 1897—I am muddling along with my chorus.
      One thing that pleases me about the reviews [of The Authoress]
      and myself is that I have not felt the smallest temptation to reply
      to any one of them—very gross though the misrepresentation has
      often been. Tell me what reviews you have not come across at
      Nice and I will send them to you if you like ; but perhaps I had
      better not for they will make you very angry—and perhaps retard
      your recovery !
           I replied that I did not want to see the malicious and
      spiteful reviews, and he wrote that he would send " none
      but good ones—if there should prove to be one, which I
      do not expect."
                            Butler to H. F. Jones.
          16 December 1897—A man came to call on me on Saturday
      whom I had not seen for a full 20 years, a Times war corre
      spondent. He is a gentleman, but he bored me and frightened
      me. He had not heard of my Odyssey book, and, when I told
      him, he began to spout lines from Pope's Odyssey, and it alarmed
      me to hear him maundering on in that way, so silly, so senile, and
      so clever. He was a creature from another world and I felt
      inclined to bid him depart from me as from a sinful man, O
                                      282

.
  </? /?<^tU-


xxxtii              DEATH OF PAULI                       283
Lord ! However he got an Authoress out of me ; and on 1897
Monday he came up again with a young woman—an actress, a Act. 62
Miss Hodson. If he does so any more I shall have to play him
my chorus on a ground-bass.
    23 December 1897—I have been out with Alfred and Angelo
to Harrow Weald. I had to kiss old Mrs. Foskett under the
mistletoe and so had Alfred and Angelo.
     Angelo was Angelo Coppo, from the Rosa Rossa at
Casale, who had come to England to learn English as his
brother Cesare had done ; and Mrs. Foskett was one of
the old ladies who, with Queen Elizabeth (since deceased),
used to keep the public-house at Harrow Weald. Butler
had not been well this autumn, and the publishers were
worrying him and giving him a great deal more trouble
than he liked, hence the slight petulance that may be
perceived in the extract about the Times correspondent.
On the other hand Pauli had been giving no trouble.
Pauli was always sympathetic about the books and had been
particularly so about The Authoress. He was more hurt by
the tone of the reviews than Butler, having expected a
more cordial reception. On 15th December he came to
lunch in Clifford's Inn as usual, and, the following day,
wrote that he had caught cold and should not come to
lunch on the 17 th. Butler was not uneasy because every
winter was a struggle for Pauli and he was often prevented
from coming to lunch. He wrote again saying how he
was, and Butler replied to his chambers in Lincoln's Inn
that he intended to go to Boulogne for Christmas, accord
ing to custom, and giving his address there so that, in
case he might be wanted, he could be sent for. He also
asked if Pauli would like him to send ^25, the balance of
the £50 due at Christmas, half of the quarterly payment
of the allowance having been anticipated. Pauli replied
promising to keep Butler posted and saying that the £25
could stand over, but his letter was written by a nurse.
At Boulogne, Butler received one communication from
the nurse and then, for three days, nothing. He returned
to town and next day read in The Times that Pauli had
died on the 29th December, exactly eleven years to the
day after the death of Canon Butler.

         284                 PAULI'S FUNERAL                                xxxvn
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
 189762 wnat30M
Aet.               Dec. 1897—I
               surroundings       last not
                             his have  illness
                                            been
                                               waswritten     andI have
                                                    passed,toand        no think
                                                                    rather  idea inI
         had better not enquire nor put myself into communication with
         his friends. If he had wished the communication to be established
         he would have ensured its being so. All I should have wished to
        do would be to attend the funeral to do away with the supposition
        that there was any estrangement between us and as the only
        fitting termination of so close an intimacy ; but I feel convinced
        I shall be communicated with (in which case I shall certainly
        attend) unless it was Pauli's distinct wish that I should not be
        present, in which case of course I am better away. It is all very
        sad and to me utterly unintelligible, so much so that I shrink from
        making any move till a move is made towards me.
             Butler was communicated with by the undertaker and
        attended Pauli's funeral. He and the others who had
        been invited assembled in the Westminster Bridge Road
        and went by train to Brookwood. He recognised some
        of them, though he had not seen them for thirty years. In
        the course of conversation in the train he asked where
        Pauli had lived, for there could be no reason now why he
      j should not know. He was told that he lived in Belgrave
     1 Mansions, Grosvenor Gardens, S.W. It seemed that the
        rooms were very cheap, only £ 1 20 a year, which was less
        than he had paid before, when living in Bruton Street.
        Butler was paying £28 rent for his own rooms in
        Clifford's Inn, or about ^36 in all, including rates and
        taxes. Then he asked :
             " Have you any idea how much Pauli made by his
        profession ? "
             One of his fellow-travellers replied : " I do not know
        how he has been doing of late years, but many years ago
        —perhaps twenty, but I cannot be certain—he told me he
        was earning about ^700."
             Butler remembered his father's letter in 1879 saying
        he had been told that Pauli was making £1000 a year,
        and how Pauli had indignantly denied that he was making
        more than his bare expenses.
             Then Butler heard that during his last illness Pauli
        had been properly looked after, that he had well-to-do

xxxvit                  DISCLOSURES                            285
friends who saw that he had every comfort, that he was 189.?
conscious till about six hours before the end, and that he Aet- 6*
died without any pain or struggle.
     Presently we reached Brookwood and went to the mortuary-
chapel, where the service was read with an unctuous affectation
that I have seldom heard exceeded, and thence to the grave.
     After the coffin had been duly lowered and the service ended,
we were asked to a luncheon which had been brought down with
us from London. Everything was done regardless of expense and
I was wondering who in the world was paying for it—or rather I
should have wondered if I had not heard about . . . [the well-to-
do friends]—when I reflected, with a certain satisfaction, that for
once in my life I was making a hearty meal at what was very
nearly Pauli's expense. It was the nearest thing to a dinner from
him that I had ever had.
     [Then it appeared that Pauli had left his brother £1000] as
though there were more than j£iooo disposed of under Pauli's
will. And here the reserve which I had maintained very suffi
ciently broke down. I had been shocked at learning the style
in which Pauli evidently lived, and the amount he had been mak
ing at the Bar while doing his utmost to convince me that he
was not clearing anything at all. I understood now why Pauli
had preserved such an iron silence when I had implored him to
deal with me somewhat after the fashion in which I had dealt with
him. The iniquity of the whole thing, as it first struck me in full
force, upset me.
      He took one of the other mourners aside, told him
shortly about the relations that had subsisted between
Pauli and himself, and asked his advice as to whether he
ought to say anything about them. Speaking about these
things to another had the effect of calming him and of
showing him that he had perhaps said too much ; where
upon he regained control of himself and behaved quite
genially on the way up to town—at least he writes that he
" answered all their questions genially." I was not there
and cannot say how the geniality struck them.
     Soon afterwards, the solicitor who was winding up
Pauli's estate sent to Butler an old will of his dated 1864
or 1865, almost wholly in favour of Pauli, who had
preserved it although he was aware that it had been
revoked and knew the contents of Butler's then existing
will. The solicitor next wrote about the value of shares
                                                                    i

         286           "VERY PAINFUL READING
 1898 in the Canada Tanning Extract Company, and said that he
let. 62 had several books and other mementoes of Pauli at his
         office, and that Butler could have one if he liked to call.
        Butler did not want any further memento of Pauli than he
        already had, and felt sure that the solicitor must have
        known that the shares were valueless ; nevertheless,
        guessing that his correspondent wanted to see him, and
        thinking he might hear something interesting, he called.
              He learnt that Pauli's greatest receipts from his
        practice in any one year were from £800 to £900, but
        that during the last few years he had done less, owing to
        his frequent illnesses, and had not taken more than about
        £500 or £600. The net value of his estate was about
       £9000. He heard also that he had been receiving money
        from other friends, and a great deal more which need not
        be repeated here.
              I have taken the above, sometimes quoting, sometimes
        condensing, from the conclusion of the long and detailed
        account left by Butler of the relations between himself
        and Pauli.         He wrote the account while abroad and
        speaks of it as being left in a rough state, by which
        he means that it was not rewritten. If this remark
        able document is ever printed in full, most of it will be
        found to be what Canon M'Cormick would have called
       " very painful reading."          This is the peroration, not
       condensed :
     y       I can now bring this squalid, miserable story to an end. On
       thinking it all over my main feeling is one of thankfulness that I
        never suspected the facts, as I now know them, till after Pauli's
       death. The only decent end for such a white heat of devotion as
        mine was to him for so many years was the death of one or other
       of the parties concerned. If I had withdrawn from him and said
        I would do no more for him, I firmly believed that he would say
        nothing, leave me, and, probably, either blow his brains out or
        drown himself. I felt pretty sure I was doing a great deal too
        much, but I had rather have done a great deal too much than a
        little too little. Moreover, I knew him to be in wretched health,
        quite unfit to bear any great shock or change of habits. It was
        absolutely impossible for me to suspect that he had /9000 of solid
        money behind him. Knowing what I do now, T see that the
        withdrawal of my £200 a year would not have been the disaster

xxxvn             PAULI AND JEUDWINE                          287
to him which I thought it would ; but, even so, Pauli would 1898
never have stood my breaking with him. Not that he liked me Aet- 6*
—it is plain he never did so—but he respected me and feared me.
He must have feared things coming round to me. He would never
have known what I might not say about him. Physically he was
as brave as morally he was the reverse ; if he had found himself
 threatened with disgrace he would never have faced it. This is
 my belief, and the more I think of it the more thankful I am
that I never knew the truth until it was too late for my know
ledge to tempt me into departing from the line of conduct which
I had long decided upon.
     Besides, even though Pauli had not gone under in consequence
of my breaking with him, if he had died, as he easily might in
any of his winter colds years before the end actually came, I
should have been haunted by the fear that I had been the cause
of it to my dying day j whereas now my conscience is absolutely
clear of all offence towards him save that of having made it so
deplorably easy to do things which, if I had made them harder,
he would have been less likely to do. The thing is over. I am
thankful that it is so. I can laugh at the way in which Pauli
hoodwinked me, and, as I said to the solicitor, though he left me
nothing in his will he has, in effect, left me from £200 to ^210
a year, clear of all outgoings—for the luncheons must be taken
into the account. We both of us laughed somewhat heartily
when I took in the luncheons.
     How far I am right in leaving this record of the transaction,
 I am more uncertain. Jones thinks I should leave it. I can at
all events destroy it later and, unless I had taken advantage of
 my foreign trip to write it at odd times now, while the later
incidents are fresh in my mind, I should never have written it
at all. I could never tear myself from the other work I have in
hand while at home and able to get to the Museum. If ever it
is read, however, it should be remembered that it is an ex parte
statement and that Pauli's version of the matter can never be
known. For I hardly think that he can have left any record
concerning any part of it.
     Lastly, I cannot refrain from remembering what a thorn
Jeudwine was in my grandfather's side for thirty-six years.
Mutatis mutandis, it is a very singular thing that for so nearly
the same length of time I should have been so closely linked
with one whose connection with me was, on the whole, I suppose
I must admit, disastrous. If I have borne my crux with anything
like Dr. Butler's self-command, surely that should be enough
for me.
    Roue, Frid. May 20th, 1898.
     Begun about April 14th and left in this rough state.

   288                     GHEMME                       XXXVII
       Pauli's death had naturally depressed Butler and we
2 looked forward to our Sicilian tour. We started on the
  6th April and went through Basel to Casale-Monferrato,
  and he picked up in health and spirits at once. Having
  to wait two hours at Novara, we lunched at the station
  in the restaurant which was kept by a polite little old
  man in a black silk cap and a gold scarf-pin set with
  diamonds. He knew us, for we had often lunched there
  on our way to and from Varallo. He had been made
  a cavaliere, not, so we were told, because of " any damned
  merit " as those words are ordinarily used, but for the
  very sensible reason that he had a genius for attracting
  good wine to his famous cellars. He gave us a bottle of
  his best Ghemme. Towards the end of our luncheon,
  Butler called him and complained that we really could
  not drink his wine. He was much concerned, took up
  the bottle carefully and began to pour out some to taste
 it himself. When he saw we had only left a couple of
 drops he laughed, and his son laughed, and the gentleman
 at the next table laughed, and so did we, and Butler said it
 was like the white hair that Helen spied on Troilus's chin,
 and we really must give an extra tip to the waiter. But
 we had a little shock afterwards. Before our train left,
 the cavaliere sat down to his own lunch and we observed
 that he drank beer.
      At Casale, Cesare Coppo took us for an excursion to
 Camino and the Avvocato Negri came too. It was a
 lovely day and we drove through a country " all made
 up of Bellini backgrounds." At Camino we walked up
 the hill towards the castle, carrying our basket of pro
 visions, till we came to a shady bower by the roadside
 with a fountain of water at hand. Cesare displayed his
 luncheon and we began. We had often seen slices of
 ham cut thin but the slices which Cesare produced were
 thinner than all the other slices put together—so to speak ;
 we asked how it was done. Cesare replied that it required
 practice and a sharp knife. But there were people, he
 said, born able to do it, and they could dispense with the
 practice.    They always, however, required the sharp
 knife. This reminded me of something Hans Faesch

xxxvii             A REAL PRINCESS                     289
had told me about the boys of his native town. They 1898
have a festa at Basel in the spring, when all the men beat Aet 6a
the drum without intermission for three days. This has
been going on for so many generations that now every
boy born of Balois parents is able to beat the drum as
soon as he can hold it ; he does not require to be taught.
But he must have drum-sticks.
     " Now let me make a note of that," said Butler ; " it
supports the theory of the inheritance of acquired char
acteristics."
     While he was making his note, Cesare took one of
the bottles of wine out of the fountain, where he had put
them to cool, and filled our glasses.
     " Ah ! caro Cesare," said Butler, after tasting his
wine, " il Padre Eterno fu certo di buon umore nel giorno
in cui cre6 il famoso Grignolino."
     Then he returned to the ham-cutting and constructed
a story about a prince condemned by the local witch, who
had not been invited to his christening, to suffer from
mental depression until he should meet with a real
princess. And in those days it was only real princesses
who could cut ham thin. So the prince made all the
young ladies he met cut ham, and in this way discovered
a real princess. She cut the ham so thin that he was
able to read his breviary even through the lean part of
a slice, and thus he detected a misprint which had hitherto
escaped him. Whereupon he married her, his health was
restored, and they both lived happily ever afterwards.
     After lunch we saw the castle and then went to the
church of San Gottardo. The avvocato opened a little
cupboard in the wall behind the altar and showed us that
it contained two skulls, one broken by a nail six inches
long that had been driven into it.
     " It looks like a murder," said Butler.
     " But who knows ? " said the avvocato, " and who
will know until the Last Great Day when the secrets of
all hearts shall be revealed ? "
     " Oh, that's all very well ! " exclaimed Butler, " but
when it comes to that there will be too much going on.
What though there lurk a little skeleton within my
     vol. 11                                         u

                          THE FAMILY COPPO
 1898 cupboard ; what though he have a screw loose in every
.et. 6* j0jnt . iet me but hush the rattling of his bones and keep
         him from blundering out and running downstairs to
         answer the front-door bell and tell the visitors all about
         it ; let me but keep him quiet until such time as every
         body else's cupboards are also giving up their contents
         and—but this is to anticipate."
              So we left the church and called on the parroco who
         knew no more of the murder than the avvocato, but he
         gave us a glass of Marsala and we photographed him, and,
         by his particular desire, in his canonicals ; he had never
         been photographed in them before.
              Butler and I were always treated at the Albergo Rosa
         Rossa as though we were members of the family—so
        much so that for a long while we carried on what was
        nothing less than a family quarrel with the Signora
        Coppo and Cesare. It was all the fault of the signora :
        she took it into her head that Butler had been very kind
        to Cesare and his brother Angelo when they were in
        England. I do not say that he had been unkind to the
        boys — quite the contrary — but their mother took an
        extravagant view of her rights, as I am sure she would
        have been told had she consulted any unprejudiced
        observer—myself for instance. She presumed upon her
        position as landlady and refused to deliver a bill. When
        it was time to leave and we asked for one she made a
        practice of bundling us into her omnibus and hustling
        us off to the station, saying she would get the bill ready
        for next year.     Even in Italy, where time is of little
        consequence, trains will not wait for passengers merely
        because they have not paid their bills, and so it happened
        that several times we had to leave in debt to the albergo.
        Butler gave the house a barometer as a slight acknow
       ledgement, but this only made matters worse and led to
        innumerable compacts, our fundamental idea being that
        we must have a bill of some sort, theirs, that they must
        have no more barometers of any kind ; but all the treaties
        were broken, and the relations became so strained that at
        last we threatened to stay at Vercelli and come over only
        for the day. It ended in an agreement that we might

 xxxvii        THE FAMILY SCHMITT                      291
pay the 9ame as is paid by the Italian officers who >«98
frequent the hotel, which was a victory for us in form, ct' *
but in fact for the Rosa Rossa, because the amount was
ridiculously small and we were more trouble than many
officers.
     When we had settled with the signora, or been
compelled to leave without settling, we went first to
 Florence, where we spent an evening with Miss Helen
Zimmern ; then, after a day or two at Perugia, to Assisi,
the birthplace of S. Francesco. We did not know much
about S. Francesco and were interested to learn from the
guide-book that he passed his youth in frivolity and was
sobered by adversity. We saw the frescoes and specially
noticed the one representing his nuptials with la Poverta.
Butler said he should prefer to take for his bride la
Competenza Modesta and that he would be as faithful to
her as the frailty of his nature would permit. This was
a reminiscence of what he used to say during the ten
years before the death of his father—that he had taken
vows of modest competency, but seemed to be in a fair
way to break them.
     We went through the Abruzzi, stopping at Aquila
and Solmona, by the railway that had recently been
opened, and on to Naples and Salerno. Here we found
among our letters a German newspaper containing a
review of The Authoress, and took it with us to read in
the train on our way to Paestum, where we were going
to spend the day. But Butler had no German dictionary
and could not make much of it. Suddenly he said to
me, indicating our fellow-travellers :
     " Do you think those people look as though they
understood German ? "
     I considered them critically for a moment and replied
in the affirmative ; whereupon he stated his difficulty
and showed them his review. They were Monsieur
Hippolyte Schmitt and his two daughters, French people
from Metz, and one of the young ladies satisfied him as
to the contents of the review. They were going to
Paestum also, and we spent a delightful day with them.
They provided just what he wanted—some new, pleasant,

        292                     BREAKFAST                        xxxvn
  1898 friendly, sympathetic companions to play with. The
Aet* e% acquaintance thus begun continued to the end of Butler's
        life, and since his death I have remained on friendly terms
        with the Schmitts.
             We went by train to Reggio, crossed to Messina, and
        proceeded to Taormina, where I was taken ill, probably
        the result of fatigue from travelling too continuously.
        After about a week Butler left me to recover while he
        went round the island and saw his friends.
                             Butler to H. F. Jones.
             9 May 1898—I ordered my breakfast at 8.          8 sharp, a
                                                          At Trapani.
         knock at my door. "Breakfast" said I to myself; but it was
        Sugameli. At 8.15 a knock at my door. " B." s. I to m. ; but
         it was Giacalone. At 8.25 a.k.a.m.d. " B." s. I to m. ; but it
         was Tummarello. At 8.40 I could stand it no longer ; I said
         they might go on talking, but I must get my breakfast. I got
        it at 9.
              While Butler was away, I idled about in Taormina,
         or went for such walks as I could manage, or lay on the
        grass in the theatre in front of the great view, recuperating,
         and by the time he came back I was sufficiently recovered
         to return home with him. Before we left, we were in
         the theatre one day looking at the fragments of the
         stones that are strewn about in the orchestra, and he said
         they were like the fragments of My Duty towards My
         Neighbour that lay strewn about in his memory. It
         would take a lot of work to put them all back into their
         places and reconstruct the original.
              We went to Messina and, as it was calm weather,
         took the steamer to Naples, whence we travelled by land
        to Rome, Genoa, Turin, Casale-Monferrato, and Basel.
        Here we saw Hans Faesch, who had come to Europe for
        a holiday and to make arrangements for a change in his
        life in the East.

xxxvii              AUSTIN AND MORRIS                             293
                Professor Joseph Galeoto to Butler.
                                            Trapani, 13rd May 1898.
    Dear Sir—I am acquainted with Mr. Peter Sugameli, a 1898
bosom friend of yours. This makes me bold to ask you for Aet- 6*
some elucidations, as you are a literary man of repute. I am
about to publish an Abridgement of English Literature for the
use of Technical Institutes in Italy. I wish to know something
about Alfred Austin, the present Poet Laureate ; namely, the
place and time of his birth, his studies, his masterpiece and minor
works and his literary merits. Is Lewis Morris inferior to the
above writer ? May I affirm that the principal poets of the
present time are : Swinburne, Morris, Austin and Mary Robinson ?
Awaiting your favour I thank you in advance and ever remain,—
Yours respectfully,                       Prof. Joseph Galeoto.
  Corso V. Emmanuels,
       N. 228 i° Piano.
                    Butler to Professor Galeoto.
                                                      yd June 1 898.
    Dear Sir—Alfred Austin was born at Headingley, May 30,
1835. He was educated at Stonyhurst College, 1 849-1 852, and
took his degree as Bachelor of Arts at London University,
1853. He was called to the Bar, Nov. 17th 1857. His works,
which are very numerous, range from 1853 to x^95- ^ cannot
say which are the most important of them ; there are over thirty
in all and I have never either read or heard of a single one of
them. A collected edition of his poems was published in 1892.
He was appointed Poet Laureate on the death of Lord Tennyson
in 1896.
    I have taken the foregoing from A Dictionary of English
Authors, by R. Farquharson Sharp, of the British Museum, pub
lished by George Redway, Hart Street, Bloomsbury, 1897 ; Price
7 shillings and sixpence net.
    I think you should omit Miss Mary Robinson from your list
of leading poets ; but you should, I think, mention Rudyard
Kipling, about whom you will find all necessary details in the
work above referred to.
    As for estimating the comparative merits of Alfred Austin and
Lewis Morris, I could not attempt such a task without at any
rate reading some of the works of one or both of these writers—
a labour which I beg to assure you is far beyond my strength.—
Believe me, Dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
                                                       S. Butler.

       294           PERFECTION IN WRITING                          xxxvn
 1898       Butler was now immersed in Shakespeare's Sonnets.
Act 62 j_je jearnt thejn by heart, beginning by learning the first
       line of each with its number, as one might learn a set of
       nonsense verses ; then he learnt each Sonnet and thus he
       remembered their order.           On 30th July he wrote to
       The Athenaeum with his reasons for dating them early in
       the life of the poet.
            He was also correcting the proofs of his translation of
       the Iliad. I had gone abroad early in August and was
       staying with Hans Faesch in Switzerland. Butler went
       for an outing of four days to Flushing :
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                               Flushing.
            24 Aug. 1898—They have been deluging me with proofs
       lately [of the translation of the Iliad]. There are only about
       eight pages more to come now, and then, of course, the preface.
       I have got one or two nice emendations for the Sonnets which no
       one has got, one of them especially good, I think, as explaining
       how Sonnet 99 comes to have 15 lines; but you can imagine
       what with proof and Flushing I have not done much work at the
       Sonnets, but I have no more to learn by heart. Also at Flushing
       I wrote one myself, a poor innocent thing but I was surprised to
       find how easily it came ; if you like it I may write a few more.
             The Sonnet was the one beginning : " Not on sad
       Stygian shore," given post, p. 361. Of course I liked it
        very much and he did " write a few more."
             My sister Lilian had been trying her hand at short
       stories, and we had submitted one to Butler for his opinion
        and advice ; it was called " Mrs. Waley's Sacrifice."
                           Butler to Mist L. I. Jones.
            26 Aug. 1898—As for your writing—pray believe me you
        write quite "pleasantly," "lucidly," and without being either
        "stilted or careless "at present. Perfection in writing is an ignis
        fatuus ; every one is at times both stilted and careless and more
        or less unpleasant. Homer is so, Shakespeare is so, and so long
        as we are men and women we must be contented to be as we
        are and our readers must be contented to take us for what we
        are. Look at Shakespeare's Sonnets (which I have committed to

xxxvn                   HOW TO WRITE                          295
 memory that I might the better understand them)—they are 1898
written, I take it, hastily. They abound with slovenliness, Aet- 6*
crabbedness, and obscurity ; he thought he would take more pains
and polish up " Venus and Adonis " and " Lucrece " with extreme
care—with what result ? We can admire these last, but we do
not want them ; whereas we can read the Sonnets over and over
and over and over again. I take it Shakespeare got to understand
that he had made a mistake in finishing too highly, and we have
it on authority that in his plays but few lines were blotted. The
upshot of all this preaching is to urge you not to trouble about a
style—not the least little bit—
              In art, books, music, there's no other plan
              To mend the style except to mend the man.
And the same applies to woman as much as to man—as I need
hardly say—but there is no comfortable rhyme to " woman."
    Practically what, if I may venture to say so, you want is to
develop some of the motives you have already introduced ; there
is Mrs. Waley's wig, there are the brother's debts, there is the
parrot, and surely poor James may in the end be revenged—might
he not even sell the parrot, cage and all ? However, I do not want
to make suggestions.
    But I may add this much. I have often at the beginning of a
book found myself very uncertain what I would do, and appalled
at the difficulty of knowing what to put where, and how to develop
my incidents. I never have that feeling now because I have
always found that there is some one point or other in which I can
see my way. I immediately set to work at that point and before I
have done and settled it I invariably find that there is another
point which I can also see and settle, etc., etc.
    At present some of your incidents—as, for example, the
brother's debts and the quarrel between the lovers — suggest
mechanical arrangement ; the only reason for this I believe to be
that they are introduced a little too suddenly. In lengthening
your work, which I hope you will do, you will be sure to find
some ways of letting things grow more gradually.
    And now I have let my pen run on too glibly but, like
Shakespeare and Homer, I will let the thing go without attempting
to tinker it.
                       From Butler's Diary
    Frld. Sep. ib-Tuesd. Sep. 27—To Amsterdam to the Rem
brandt Exhibition returning via Haarlem (where I did not
admire the Franz Hals) and the Hague. My feet very bad all
the time.

        296                     REMBRANDT                            xxxvn
  1898        Butler brought home with him the Catalogue of the
Aet. 6a Rembrandt Exhibition, and I have given it to the British
        Museum. It contains the pencil notes he made at the
        time, one to each of the 124 pictures. Sometimes he
        only says "very fine," "all very well," "admirable,"
        " lovely," " I don't want it," and so on. Some of the
        pictures are marked X, which means that he would fre
        quently look at them if he possessed them ; others not so
        marked he admired in many cases very cordially but did
        not want them. When in doubt he put X ? Those that
        he would rather not have he marked Ö. I give a few of
        the more detailed notes:
             52. Het corporaalschap van Frans Banning Cocq, gezegd de
        u Nachtwacht "—If I knew what to say about this picture I would
        say something, but I do not know. All I know is that I find it
        too much for me in every way, and would not live with it in my
        house. But the mutilation of the picture in 171 5 has made it
        impossible to judge it fairly. It is more full of vigorous life and
        motion, more able to take the beholder in as an actual solid scene,
        more convincingly characteristic of the time, place and circum
        stances, in a word, more effective than any picture that I can
        call to mind ; but it overpowers me and, though 1 should be glad
        if we had it at the National Gallery, I don't want it in my
        own house.
             65. Nicholas Berchem (the property of the Duke of West
        minster, Grosvenor House, London)—There is nothing in the
        Exhibition much finer than this and 66 [i.e. the companion picture,
        the wife of Nicholas Berchem].
             68. Jan Six aan het venster, studie voor die ets (Léon Bonnat,
        Paris)—An exquisite little gem ; one of the most delightful in
        the whole exhibition.
             75. Studie naar Rembrandts broeder met een helm op het
        hoofd. (Keizer Frederik Museums Vereeniging, Berlijn)— I
        never saw such painting of a helmet. One would swear it was
        real. I admit it and admire it but do not want it. On second
        thoughts I think 1 do.
             94. Portret van een Poolsch ruiter in de dracht van het
        regiment van Lysowsky, in een landschap (the property of
         Graaf Tarnowski, Dzikow, Galicia)—A very curious subject for
        Rembrandt to have had to paint.
              no. Portret van een heer (Prins Joesoepof S'. Petersburg)—
         Wonderful. I am not sure that this and 1 1 1 are not finer than
         the Nicholas Berchem and his wife. They are among the very
        finest work he ever did.

xxxvii           "SPLENDID SLOGGING"                             297
     in. Portret van een dame met een struisveder in de hand ig9g
(Prins Joesoepof S'. Petersburg)—Wonderful. I cannot make Aet. 62
out which of the two I prefer, this or the preceding. It is
impossible to believe that painting can do more. These two
pictures kept growing upon me all the time I was here.
     116. De Staalmeesters—If I had Jones and Gogin and
Ballard with me, one after the other, and had plenty of time to
think them all over I might know better what to think. The
residuary impression produced upon me so far is "that the
picture would have been better if the painter had taken more
pains." I admit it and most respectfully admire it, but am vexed
with myself for not finding it kindle all the enthusiasm that I
should like it to do.
     Perhaps it is that I find the arrangements of light, shade,
colour and composition more carefully studied than the individu
alities of the drapers. Three of the heads are very characterless
and none of them carry full conviction.
     117. Homerus— Rubbish, but he does not seem to have
made Homer blind.
     123. Esther, Haman, and Ahasuerus (the property of Z. M.
de Koning van Roemenie, SinaYa)—Everything subordinated to
splendid slogging of a yellow dress. Composition disregarded ;
arrangement of light and shade disregarded ; figures without
interest or individuality ; nothing in the picture to attract, except
the splendid slogging of a yellow dress and its cloak with ermine
lining. In reality it is a magnificent piece of still-life painting,
but as this it says the last word that can be said about the
painting of yellow satin and a gold brocaded cloak.
     Hans Faesch came from Switzerland to London about
this time to complete his arrangements before returning
to the East. He was accompanied by Peter HaufF,
a Norwegian with whom he had gone into partnership,
and they went to Vien-tiane in the Shan States with the
intention of dealing in rubber. Before they started
Butler gave them a farewell dinner at the Hotel d'ltalie
in Old Compton Street at which Gogin, Alfred and I
were also present.
      On 15th October 1898, we received the first copy of
The Iliad of Homer rendered into English prose for the use of
those who cannot read the original. The motto on the title-
page is from a letter from Baron Merian to Dr. Butler : " I
entirely agree with you after due rumination. Homer and
Shakespeare are the only two' poets in the wide world."

      298              THE RISK OF HEAVEN                        xxxvh
,898       Butler's notion of the lines on which a translation
    J should be made are thus stated in the preface :
          The genius of the language into which a translation is being
      made is the first thing to be considered ; if the original was
      readable, the translation must be so also, or, however good it
      may be as a construe, it will not be a translation. It follows
      that a translation should depart hardly at all from the modes of
      speech current in the translator's own times, inasmuch as nothing
      is readable for long which affects any other diction than that of
      the age in which it was written. We know the charm of the
      Elizabethan translations, but he who would attempt one that
      shall vie with these must eschew all Elizabethanisms that are not
      good Victorianisms also.
           And so he strove to make his translation readable for
      those who are accustomed to modern English, and avoided
      the affectation of larding it with archaisms which would
      have made it look like a shani ruin.
            In November he was at Shrewsbury and wrote to me
      that at Cressage, where he had a farm, he had been
      told of this dialogue between a parson and one of his
      parishioners :
           Parson : Such habits of intemperance not only ruin your
      character here, but gravely endanger your chances of happiness
      in a world beyond the grave.
           Parishioner: Well, Sir, I know my character is not of the
      best, but as for heaven, I must stand the risk of that as other
      people do.

                  CHAPTER XXXVIII
                       1899.   1900—Part I
        SHAKESPEARE'S SONNETS RECONSIDERED
                      Butler to H. F. Jones.
    31*/ Jon. 1899—I have no particular news. Alfred went 1899
out yesterday, when I was at the Museum, and had three stumps -^et- 63
of teeth out one after the other. He did not say a word to me
for fear it should disturb my working at the Museum, but he
brought all the three stumps to show me ; they seem to have
come out fairly easily. Sadler called in the afternoon and he
showed them to Sadler. Then he took them home and showed
them to the children. By this time I suppose he had got tired
of them, so he put them with some salt into an envelope and
burned them. I am glad he has had them out for they had been
plaguing him for some time.
                      Butler to Miss Butler.
    4 Jan. 1899—I have been deluged with Italian letters, two
of them requiring long troublesome answers. An old Italian
Member of Parliament keeps wanting all sorts of details about
the London School Board, all of which I have to find out, and
it worries me, for it is out of my beat. Then another wants
all sorts of questions answered about the Odyssey, let alone the
numerous New Year's letters that I have to answer.
     But this does not nearly exhaust the number of things
that were interfering with the writing of his book about
the Sonnets of Shakespeare.
     On 5th March 1899, Giacalone Patti wrote from
Trapani that a friend of his had the flag of one of the
steamers in which Garibaldi and his Thousand arrived at
                                 299

       300                  CONTE PEPOLI                     zzxvui
 1899 Marsala in i860. It was a large flag, white and blue
A«. 63 stripes wjth tfoe name 0f the steamer, Lombardo, across
       it. The Lombardo was the steamer commanded by Nino
       Bixio and was sunk in the harbour of Marsala ; Garibaldi
       himself commanded the Piemonte. Butler was to find
       some rich Englishman, or some wealthy museum, to buy
       this historic object. He made inquiries without success,
       and replied that the flag was not more likely to find a
       purchaser in London than a flag of the Mahdi, taken in
       the Soudan, would be to find a purchaser in Sicily.
           The flag was afterwards bought by Conte Agostino
       Sieri Pepoli, and is now in the museum in the convent of
       the Annunziata at Trapani, where the count also placed
       the large collection of valuable and curious objects which
       he gave to the town. He died in the spring of 19 10,
       aged 62 ; the previous autumn I had had a long con
       versation with him one evening as we sat together outside
       the Grand Hotel at Trapani. He was staying in Trapani
       partly to be near his museum, the arrangement of which
       was the hobby of his declining days, and partly because,
       as he grew older, life on the Mountain was too full of
       discomfort. He told me a great deal about his museum ;
       he had put The Authoress of the Odyssey and Butler's
      letter sending him the book into a special show-case with
      the autograph MS. of a Ballata by Scarlatti which he had
       bought at the Hotel Drouot in Paris.
           There were two Scarlatti—Alessandro, the father, and
       Domenico, his son. Domenico was a friend of Handel
       and so devoted to him and his genius that he always
       crossed himself whenever Handel's name was mentioned
       in his presence. I reminded the count of this, and said that
       Butler would have been proud if he could have known that
       his book and his letter were preserved in the same case
      with a Ballata by Domenico Scarlatti. He replied that
       this would not quite do ; the Ballata is by Alessandro
      who was born at Trapani in 1658 or 1659. They some
      times tell one in Trapani that Alessandro was born not
      at Trapani, but at the village of Paceco, close by, and, if
      so, he would still pass for a Trapanese, because Paceco is
      in the Province of Trapani. Domenico was born in

xxxvin         ALESSANDRO SCARLATTI                          301
Naples in 1685. There is nothing on the Ballata, as 1899
one sees it in the museum, to tell whether it is by the Aet- 6j
father or the son, only the word "Scarlatti" is visible
because the MS. is framed and the Christian name, if
there is one, is hidden ; but the Count bought the Ballata
believing it to be by Alessandro, the Trapanese, and it
probably is so because he wrote much for the voice,
whereas Domenico is better known as a writer for the
harpsichord. I think Buder would still have felt proud
to be in the same show-case with Alessandro Scarlatti.
    The Reverend Canonico Romano, who helped the
count to arrange his museum, took me there afterwards
and we copied the words of the Ballata :
       Io piango, e tu non m' odi. E pur t' amo c t' adoro.
       Odimi almeno, e poi contento morr6. Ma con chi parlo I
       Ahi ! lasso porgo al vento i sospiri.
    On 13th March 1899, Mr. (now Sir) Sidney Lee
wrote asking Butler to join the committee which was
being formed to present Garnett with his portrait on his
retirement from the British Museum. Butler, of course,
accepted.
    There was also much to attend to in connection with
his small houses near London—for instance, the erection
of a telephone pole at Ladywell ; and a great deal to
settle about his Shropshire property, the planting of trees
at Harnage, the shooting in the woods, the cutting of
timber, difficulties with the water, and so on. Presently
his nephew, who was growing oranges and grape-fruit in
Florida, wanted him to find out where to get lace paper
and tinsel filigree so that he could pack his goods in
fancy style to make them attractive.
    All these interruptions worried him, I do not say
more than they should have done, but more than they
would have done before 1895, and more than inter
ruptions of such a kind would ever have worried his
grandfather. His feet were still painful, and I used still
to accompany him to Clifford's Inn because of the giddi
ness ; but, as I have said, he would not always let me
come. He did not, however, go alone all the way,

         302                  MR. EVANS                      XXXVIII
 1899 though I did not find this out till after his death. Old
>et. 63 j-jatt> tne night-watchman, who cultivated roses and
        whose watch-box was at the Southampton Buildings
        entrance of Staple Inn, had died and, in 1897, was
        succeeded by a younger man who had been a marine.
        Butler used to get the new watchman to accompany him
        as far as the corner of Chancery Lane ; there he would
       say :
            " Thank you and good-night, good Mr. Evans."
            And the watchman would reply : " Good-night, Sir."
            Butler would not let him come farther because he
       would not take him out of sight of his watch-box. After
       this had been going on for a considerable time, like a
       versicle and response in the Church service, there came
       an evening when Butler said as usual :
            " Thank you and good-night, good Mr. Evans."
            And the watchman replied ; " Yes, Sir ; good—for
       nothing."
            He had been saying this to himself for weeks before
       he had the courage, on this particular evening, to say it
       out loud, and Butler was so pleased with him that he
       gave him five shillings on the spot and adopted another
       form of salute.    After Butler's death, Evans told this
       to my friend R. W. K. Edwards, another tenant of the
       Inn, who told me. I had already heard part of it from
       Evans, but, just as old Tom at Barnard's Inn used to call
       the hours quietly in order that the gentlemen might not
       be disturbed, so Evans stopped short in his story before
       coming to the interesting part about the five shillings, no
       doubt wishing to avoid the appearance of suggesting that
       I might follow Butler's example.
            At the end of March we started for our Italian tour
       which this year did not extend to Sicily. We went to
       Basel to salute Madame Faesch, and then to Lucerne,
       where we took the steamer to Fluelen.        Dr. Mandell
       Creighton (Bishop of London) was on board with his
       family. The bishop took us away from the others into
       a corner of the deck and made Butler talk.         This is
       what he always did. When Butler went to a party at
       Fulham, the bishop took him off alone and made him

 xxxvm                     RAVENNA                             303
talk. The bishop would listen and smoke cigarettes, but 1899
would never talk himself.                                          Aet- 6i
     " I have spent many hours with the bishop," said
Butler, " but I have no idea what he really thinks on any
subject."
     We went to Casale-Monferrato and from there
Butler went to Varallo-Sesia, and I to Nice for a week to
see my mother. We met again at Genoa and went to
 Pisa, Siena, Florence, Forll, Ravenna. From Ravenna we
went to Padua, to reconsider the Giotto frescoes, and then
to Venice.      Here we met our friend Joseph Benwell
Clark who was staying with William Logsdail the painter.
We also found in the hotel Charles Ricketts and Charles
Shannon, with whom Butler exchanged views about old
masters, discussing, of course, the Holbein water-colour at
Basel and the Bellini heads in the Louvre. After leaving
Venice we stayed at Verona, Bergamo, Milan, and Turin
on our way to Sammichele, in the valley of Susa, where we
spent a week, and returned by the end of May via the
Mont Cenis and Paris.
     After our return to London, the Rev. J. M. Wilson
(now Canon of Worcester), whom Butler had not seen for
forty years, wrote to him from Sammichele. It was an
enthusiastic letter in praise of most of the places mentioned
in Alps and Sanctuaries and also of Varallo.
               Butler to the Rev. J. M. Wilson.
    3 July 1899—I am gratified to hear that you have found Alps
and Sanctuaries serviceable. Would that I had time to write a
sequel to it for which I have many notes, but I have so many
books in contemplation and on hand that I fear I shall never
get to it.
    My friend Jones and I visited Ravenna for the first time this
year. . . . The old churches—particularly the two outside the
town, S. Maria in Porto Fuori and S. Apollinare in Classe—are
most impressive as also are several within the town. I think (but
you know them already) that you would like them as well as
Sammichele, but in a different way. The mosaics on the whole
disappointed us after those at Monreale, Palermo, and Cefalu : it
was, however, most interesting to find St. John the Baptist in two

        3o4                   HANGING THE MAIDS                                          xxxv.n
  1899 churches baptizing Christ with the assistance of the river-god of
Aet. 63 the Jordan.
               Late in July 1899 Butler received two letters from
        Lord Grimthorpe, who had read The Authoress, and
        accepted the theory that it was written by a woman—
        Nausicaa and all. Lord Grimthorpe in one of his letters
        sent some ideas of his own upon the stringing up of the
        housemaids in the Odyssey.
                                Butler to Lord Grimthorpe.1
              1st Aug. 1899—Finding that the writer when hanging the
        maids had not even tried to understand her own meaning, I rather
        shirked the passage. When, however, I publish my translation of
        the entire Odyssey, which I hope to do in about a year's time, I
        shall have an opportunity of returning to the matter and, unless
        you forbid me, will use your scholia, with due acknowledgement, to
        make it clearer to the reader how absurd the story is.
              As you are taking so kindly an interest in my views about the
        Odyssey, I venture to add a little detail which unaccountably did
        not get printed. I mean that Nausicaa—whom I am glad to see
        your lordship speak of as the authoress which she certainly was—
        intended to imply that her father's habitual guests were scoundrels
        by saying that they habitually made their final drink offering for
        the night not to Neptune but to Mercury {& Tru/taro), etc.).
              I am sure Dean Burgon was right in saying that your sword
        is not so rusty as you declare it to be j not to pretend that mine
        is less rusty than it is I will confess that I copied my accents from
        the printed text.
              P.S.— Having occasion on Monday to call on Charles
        Longman in connection with my next book, I flung your
        lordship's first letter triumphantly at his head and he was much
        impressed by it, knowing that Andrew Lang, who is his reader,
        had assured him that the whole theory was nonsense.
               Lord Gcimthorpe invited Butler to spend a day with
        him at St. Albans. He went and his host took, him over the
        cathedral and showed him the alterations and restorations
        which he had designed and had had carried out. Lord
        Grimthorpe told Butler that when he had the honour of
            1 Butler only kept » draft of this letter and the extract here given may be in
        complete, e.g. he may have written out the quotation in full, alio the date may have been
        altered.

xxxviu                  THE SONNETS                          305
showing them to the Prince of Wales (King Edward VII.) 1899
the following conversation had taken place :                     Aet- 63
     "And now tell me, Lord Grimthorpe," said the
 Prince, " who was your architect in carrying out these
admirable restorations ? "
     " I employed, Sir, the only architect with whom I
have never quarrelled."
     Butler said to me that no doubt the Prince knew all
about that, and only asked the question so as to give
the old gentleman an opportunity of playing off his
little joke.
     Longmans had agreed to publish Butler's book about
the Sonnets, but not at their own expense ; accordingly
he had it printed at Cambridge, and on 2nd September
 1899 we went to Wassen, on the S. Gottardo, and stayed
there sketching and correcting the proofs of the book and
seeing it through the press. On the 28th October 1899,
after our return to London, we received the first copy of
Shakespeare's Sonnets reconsidered and in part re-arranged
with introductory chapters, notes, and a reprint of the original
i6og edition. The motto on the title-page is from
Measure for Measure (v. i. 444-446) :
            They say, best men are moulded out of faults ;
            And, for the most, become much more the better
             For being a little bad.
     Early in November 1899 Butler received a letter from
Monsieur Fernand Henry, who had just published a trans
lation into French sonnets of the Sonnets of Shakespeare,
and had seen the announcement that Butler's book was
about to be published ; he sent a copy of his translation
and proposed an exchange. I omit the opening of Butler's
reply ; its purport was to thank Fernand Henry for his
book and to say that he understood there had been no
intention to make original research into the difficult
questions which underlie the Sonnets ; he also praised
highly the introduction which gives an excellent resume of
the opinions expressed by the writers then most in favour
with the public.
     VOL. II                                               X

        306                      HOT WATER                           xxxvm
                             Butler to Fernand Henry.
 >?99         17-20 Nov.—Your main object was to translate the Sonnets
Aet. 63 mt0 prencn verse. I state the foregoing merely to show that I
        fully realise what you intended to do and to applaud the manner
        in which you have carried out your intention.
              But—and here comes my difficulty : French poetry is based on
        principles so foreign to English that very few Englishmen (and I
        alas ! am not among the number) can understand French poetry at
        all ; we admire and understand your incomparable French prose—
        Buffon to me is simply the ne plus ultra of prose—but your
        poetry is a dead letter to me. I can see that you have caught and
        correctly rendered several of the most difficult sonnets ; but there
        my power of entering into the spirit of your translation begins
        and ends. I greatly regret that this should be so, but so it is.
              Let me confess further. When Messrs. Longman sent me
        your book, not being able to review it, I read your preface
        attentively and several of your translations and then, having very
        little room on my shelves, I took the volume to the British
        Museum, where I work most mornings, and asked them whether
        they would be likely to get it or be likely to have it given
        them. They said that if I would give it them, they would be
        very glad to have it ; and I accordingly gave it to them. At
        that time I had not heard from you, and did not foresee that I
        should have the pleasure of doing so, but was simply anxious to
        put the book at once within reach of the many Shakespearean
        scholars who frequent the Museum.
              As for helping to get the book reviewed in England, I have
        mentioned it to two friends of mine, employes in the British
        Museum, and have asked them (for they both review books) to
        call attention to it if they can ; but I never review books myself
        and have no connection with, or interest with, any of our
        journals or magazines ; indeed I am terribly out of favour with
        all of them. I never write on any subject unless I believe the
        opinion of those who have the ear of the public to be mistaken,
        and this involves, as a necessary consequence, that every book I
         write runs counter to the men who are in possession of the
         field ; hence I am always in hot water, and I doubt whether any
        one of our English writers is in much worse odour with the
         reviewers than I am. I cannot help this ; but the complete
         isolation, or worse than isolation, in which I stand robs me of
        all power to do a good turn to anyone else, however much I
         might wish to do so. I may mention as a proof of my total
         failure to attract the public that I am at present a loser by my
         books to the extent of over ^900 (English pounds) ; this deficit

XXXVIII                  STEELYARDS                            307
has extended over some 30 years, so that it has not been heavy 1899
in any one year and has occasioned me absolutely no inconvenience Aet. 64
whatever ; but it may serve to bear out my statement that I
have no literary position in England.
     As I never write reviews, so neither do I try to obtain them
for myself. The only reviews I value are those that correct me
in mistake, and these I welcome gladly.
     If there are any others of my books (see advertisement at the
end of my last book) which you would care to have, I shall have
the utmost pleasure in sending them to you. Pray pardon the
length to which this letter has extended itself.
      Mr. Garnett had not been         sympathetic about The
Authoress, as we have seen, so         Butler did not expect
from him much sympathy for his         book about the Sonnets ;
nevertheless he sent him a copy        which Garnett acknow
ledged in a long letter.
                      Butler to Richard Garnett.
                                                     15 Dec. 1899.
     My dear Mr. Garnett—I think it very kind of you to
have entered so fully into detail as regards my book in your
letter received this morning, for I am sure you have all one
man's work on hand with literary undertakings. Your letter
is valuable to me as showing how my book strikes one than
whom I know none more able to form a sound opinion con
cerning it ; nevertheless men's minds are as steelyards graduated
so differently that on no two of them will the same considerations
record the same weight, and your steelyard and mine have been
graduated very differently indeed in some respects, though very
similarly in so many others.
     The consideration that no youth of 21 would have been
likely to be able to write the Sonnets weighs so heavily with
you that it makes those which I have urged in support of
Shakespeare's extreme youth at the time he wrote them "kick
the beam."
     With me the consideration that no such man as I can alone
conceive Shakespeare to have been could conceivably have written
Sonnet 23 at the age of 30 (much less of 35) outweighs by ten,
twenty, or a hundredfold any a priori difficulty about supposing
that so exceptional a man should have written such exceptional
poems at an exceptionally early age. Each supposition involves
an impossibility in the mind of the one or other of us and there
 is no going beyond this.

        308                         DIFFERENCES                                  xxxvm
 1899        You think the Sonnets much freer from juvenile faults than
Act. 6+ the "Venus" or the "Lucrece"; I think "Venus and Adonis"
        and " Lucrece " far more polished and mature works than the
        Sonnets ; the Sonnets to my thinking abound in juvenile
        slovenliness ; not so either " Venus and Adonis " or " Lucrece."
        And so on throughout your letter. It is a case of a profound
        difference in the values which we severally attach to the same
        considerations and, while I can fully understand that those which
        have weighed heaviest with you are indeed no light ones, there is
        not one of those you have urged—except the reading " foil " in the
        last line of Sonnet 89 (69 Q) J—which appears to me to outweigh
        those that induced me to take up the position that I have
        taken. I should think " foil " is right and in any (if any) second
        edition shall adopt it with acknowledgement.
             So it was with the Odyssey ; to me the evidence that it was
        written by a woman, and a very young one, is conclusive ; but
        you found it utterly and absolutely worthless, or at any rate
        hopelessly insufficient. I know that you have most, and very
        capable, people with you ; but I know also that I have many,
        and not less capable, upon my side, among them Lord Grimthorpe,
        who wrote to me on the subject in the summer and added
        considerations which I regret not to have insisted upon with
        greater fullness.
             So it will be now with this book upon the Sonnets ; both
        numbers and present weight are with you, but I know that I
        have enough both men and women who are cordially with me to
        prevent my feeling myself isolated.
             The history of literature is the history of the reversing of
         many a deeply-rooted opinion. I have not the smallest fear that
         my book will be lost sight of and I confidently believe and hope
         that time will bring many to my opinion.
             As regards Sonnet 148 (125 Q), I carefully considered the
         question whether the "thou" of line 13 could refer to any other
         "thou" than the "thou" of line 10 and, after much hesitation,
        gravitated to the conclusion that it could not, to which con
        clusion I adhere, though my friend Jones argued the point rather
         forcibly against me.
             There ! After all the trouble that you have very kindly
         taken I feel somewhat ungrateful in maintaining such an
        uncompromising attitude, but I can thank you very cordially
        all the same, and am, with kind regards, Yours very truly,
                                                                          S. Butler.
              There are several entries in Butler's Note-Books about
            1 89 is the number in Butler'* proposed re-arrangement of the order. 69 ii the
         number in the Quarto which is followed in most modern editions.

xxrv.ii                 ROBERT BRIDGES                            309
Garnett and the Sonnets, and one in which he speaks of lg99
this letter.                                                          Act-6+
      My letter is, I know, insincere, but it is as sincere as I knew
how to make it. Garnett and I have known each other for many
years and I have a great admiration for him in not a few respects—
especially I cannot forget that he wrote that wonderful book The
 Twilight of the Gods. I cannot therefore deal otherwise than very
tenderly with him ; but approve of him I certainly do not.
       The Authoress of the Odyssey led to a correspondence
between Butler and Mr. Robert Bridges. I only give
from the letters of Mr. Bridges such short extracts as are
necessary to understand Butler's replies.
                       Robert Bridges to Butler.
      23 Dec. 1899—There can be no doubt that it is one of the
most valuable of the books on the Homeric question. There is
no reason why the Odyssey should not have been written by a
woman, only the woman was not to be Mrs. Barrett Browning.
It is of course difficult (in the absence of the works of those early
poetesses) to imagine a woman having written the great koX to.
<f>(pti of Bk. xviii. 135 in the speech of Odysseus to Amphinomus.
That always seemed to me the biggest thing in the Odyssey—one
of the biggest things in the whole of poetry—and it is so quiedy
said no one heeds it.
      This is the speech which Butler quoted in his letter to
Colonel Lean in 1893. I find no copy of Butler's reply
to Mr. Bridges, but it appears that he must have spoken
of the small success that his books had met with, and
offered to send him copies of any he might not have.
                       Robert Bridges to Butler.
      %%th Dec. 1899—Your history of The Fair Haven astonishes
me ; so few copies sold ! I have a copy—many thanks—and
have almost all your books ; the only gaps being due to the over-
appreciation of borrowers. I always hold you up as one of our
best stylists. You taught me a great deal.
       Butler was no doubt led to tell Mr. Bridges how his
books had been selling because he had been making for

        310                           DR. FURNIVALL                                        xxxvm
 1899 his own use the statement of which the Table on p. 311
Aet. 64 js a copy, it is given also in The Note-Books of Samuel
        Butler (19 1 2).
             To this must be added my book on the Sonnets in respect of
        which I have had no account as yet but am over a hundred
        pounds out of pocket by it so far—but little of which I fear is
        ever likely to come back.
             It will be noted that my public appears to be a declining one.
        I attribute this to the long course of practical boycott to which I
        have been subjected for so many years—or, if not boycott, of
        sneer, snarl and misrepresentation. I cannot help it nor, if the
        truth were known, am I at any pains to do so.
              Butler made no analysis of the sales of A First Tear
        in Canterbury Settlement (1863) nor of his pamphlet on the
        Resurrection ( 1 865). I do not know what he means by " A
        Book of Essays." It is possible that he incurred an out
        lay of ^3 : 1 1 : 9 in connection with a projected republica
        tion of his Universal Review articles or of some of his
        Italian articles about the Odyssey.
                               Myself and Dr. Furnivall
             My excellent friend Mr. Bickley, of the MS. department [British
         Museum], has for some days been bringing about a meeting
         between me and Dr. Furnivall who had borrowed my last book
         [about Shakespeare's Sonnets] from him, and who, though he did
         not agree with it, was " very much interested " in me and would
         like to make my acquaintance. So I was to come to the
         MS. Room last Wednesday at 4.30 and be introduced. I went,
         was introduced, and Dr. Furnivall and I then adjourned to the
         A.B.C. shop in Rathbone Place.
              As we walked thither Dr. Furnivall—a most amiable, kindly
        old gentleman, absolutely free from " side " or affectation, and very
        sensible (as I presently found) on some matters in respect of which
         most men are idiots—well, Dr. Furnivall began to tackle me by
        saying that it seemed to him, and he heard others express a like
        opinion, that I had made up my mind to make Sonnet 107 x refer
        to the Spanish Armada, and twisted everything else so as to make
        it fit in with this preconception.
             This interested me, for it showed me the line which the
            1 The references in this and later letters arc to the Sonnets as numbered in the Quarto,
        and not in Butler's proposed re-arrangement.

                        >                          (X            O to                                             <              Q              o
                           9nI*A
                           J°
                          •3P°>S
                                    0£1
                                   97                        o
                                                             ^i
                                                            8i                      8" +oz1
                                                                                     o                                            ooi o
                                                                                                                                  q£      iz     It
                                                                                                                                                 IOI         8«o
                                                                                                                                                               II
                                                                        [jiutig]
                                             £0
                                              t1                                                                          Lz
                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                          L                                                  • £  6
                                                                                                                                                                                  ii   S6i7
                                                                                                                                                                                       9ii
                                                     £
                                                     ZI
                                                    91
jsaivg
 'sxoog
 ^%z
 •6681
 saiqSuawjoshj,iAaiAvON^y  •s«ot
                           iey>x              z               01          S *foi                                           01 0 0                 £          8             6           ?!
                                            8i . . 68         it                     on 8+
                                                                                    8i            01                                                                      81
                                            LzJ                                                                           8i
                                                                                                                           £1              £61
                                                                                                                                          8i
                                                                                                                                 8 in                        9 LL
                                                                          £1
                                                                         %l                                                                       01
                                                                                                                                                  6S                                   81
                                                                                                                                                                                       6ZZ7
                           ]«ox
                           •jyojd
                                     01
                                   697
                                     £               61
                                                     Z
                                                    \i
                                                                                                                                                                                       ?n
                                                                                                                                                                                        *
                                                                                                                                                                                       LLJ
                                                                              .. .. ..                                       .. ..                  ..           ..
                           l{«BO
                           •S801              z fi 01                     S + foi                                          +0              0      £           8            66          9
                                            it7
                                              z Zi    + 11    £01                   9££1                                                         18
                                                                                                                                                  1                       81 11   £    0967
                                                                                                                                                                                        Zi
                                                                                                                                 8i^1 9lz 8i
                                                                         Si
                                                                          £1                      i+S                     9it                                68 +
                                                                                                                                                             -
                           •jijojj
                           qs*3
                                                 .. .. . . .. .. ..                                                                   .. ..         ..           "
                                   Z97
                                     01                                                                                                                                                 01
                                                                                                                                                                                       zgj
                            sjidog
                            pio«
                                   z+8£ zff 0+9 i+S zLz zii                                        OZI
                                                                                                                          +8* Ziz
                                                                                                                                           IOZ   S91           ZSi        9        O
                                                             p/Q
                                                              ot njo•aq
                                                             upuv
                                                            <n*tf                                rnouf
                                                                                                 snuoit/)i}f)ji»s                         uinf]
                                                                                                                                          ifiq
                                                                                                                                          fo
                                                                                                                                          •jrj
                                                                                                                                          puv
                                              Jtpj
                                              »yj_¦
                                              tuavu                       Liounyf
                                                                          snousuoMfi S$1V                                 Sj
                                                                                                                          if)ni
                                                                                                                           uiuunj
                                                                                                                            jo•                                           fr• sfossq
                                                                                                                                                                          miqjojj
                                                                                                                                                                          pjpj    foog
                                                                                                                                                                                  fr•
                                                                                                                                                                                  fi
                                                                                     P""
                                                                                     mut>ni)ut>s
                                                     tifpff
                                                     puv
                                                     fa
                                    uoyaujg                                                                                                            fasidpO
                                                                                                                  ."/¦"A!          ot»Ax3                           urojj

        312               IN THE BREAD SHOP                           xmm
  1899 reviewers of my book are pretty certain to take. If Dr. FurnivaU,
Aet. 64 without accusing me of preconception, had shown why it was un
        likely that Sonnet 107 should refer to the Spanish Armada, or had
        pointed to some other event, between, say, 1590 and 1600, to
        which the Sonnet could be held preferably to refer, I should have
        paid great attention to him, but he made no such attempt ; more
        over I knew both that there was no such event, and also that I
        had been driven on to the Armada by the conviction that
        Shakespeare must have been very young when the earlier Sonnets
        were written. Taking 21 as a hypothetical age for " very young,"
        and once convinced, as I soon was, of Shakespeare's extreme youth,
        the Armada was inevitable for Sonnet 107. I confess that the
        ready accusation of preconception and of reasoning up to a fore
        gone conclusion somewhat piqued me ; but I hope and believe
        that no sign of pique escaped me. '
            Then, when we were in the bread shop, Dr. Furnivall
        demurred to my arguing from Sonnet 2, that Shakespeare was still
        very young. He thought it was much more like the writing of an
        older person. I said there was no arguing against impressions,
        that the same words not unfrequently leave diametrically opposite
        impressions on people who are both of them able and equitable ;
        but that the impression left on me by a Sonnet which describes a
        man of 40 as one who is in an advanced state of decrepitude is
        that it can only have been written by one who had never known
        forty, or anything near it, and to whom forty still seemed very
        remote. From Sonnet 3 I collect this not less decidedly.
            We left this point, therefore, each of us holding to his own
        opinion ; but Dr. Furnivall urged that the Sonnets belonged to the
        Hamlet period in view of their introspective and deeply philosophical
        character. It was impossible that Shakespeare at the age of 21
        should have either the mental grasp or the literary skill requisite
        for the production of the Sonnets.
            To this I rejoined inwardly—for I do not think that I said
        all that I shall now say—firstly that there is not a line in the
        Sonnets that betrays any deeper thoughts about life and things
        than must have occurred long before he was 2 1 to any man who
        has been married against his will at 18 and who has been greatly
        distressed for money ; it is one of the commonplace Shakespearean
        criticisms to appeal to the philosophical character of the Sonnets,
        and if to come from the heart of a great poet who has passed
        through a baptism of fire at an early age is to be philosophical,
        then the Sonnets are philosophical ; but I find nothing in them
        to show that Shakespeare could see through a brick wall more
        clearly than other young men of warm heart and indisputable
        natural genius, who have also suffered very bitterly at an early
        age, can do.

XXXVUI                    SKIMMING                          313
    As for its having been unlikely that Shakespeare should have 1899
had the literary power at 21 to write the Sonnets—Shakespeare Aet. 64
proved to have such transcendent literary power that there is no
arguing as to what he might or might not have been able to do
when he was 21. The only question should be one of fact, as
to whether the evidence leads us to suppose or no that he wrote
the Sonnets at that age. We cannot argue in Shakespeare's case
from what other young men are commonly able to do. If this
kind of argument is permitted, may we not have some one
presently maintaining that Pitt cannot have been born so late as
 1759 because that would make him only 24 in 1783 when he
became Prime Minister ?
    Again Dr. Furnivall argued that Shakespeare was probably
gay and more or less roystering in his youth, and that the
Sonnets are the work of one who has been sobered. My answer
is that by far the greater number of the Sonnets belong to a
period covered by not more than a twelvemonth, during which
Shakespeare had passed through an ordeal that would take all the
gaiety and sprightliness out of anyone whose nerves were not of
brass or hammered steel. Besides, there is no evidence on which
we can rely with any confidence as to whether Shakespeare was
a gay, light-hearted youth or no. The impression I derive from
his works is that he was liable to quick alternations between
extremes of depression and elation. But an impression is not a
demonstration.
    Then it transpired that Dr. Furnivall had never really read
my book at all. He had skimmed parts of it. I found it
necessary to explain to him that my view of Shakespeare's
offence is that it never went beyond intention, and was never
repeated. I thought I had made these points so clear that no
one could fail to catch them, but I had to explain my position.
As for my chapters on the Ireland forgeries, he was unaware that
I had mentioned the Ireland forgeries at all.
    Dr. P'urnivall denied that there was anything in the Sonnets
to indicate that Shakespeare had been fonder of Mr. W. H. than
he should have been. He said he really could not see that any
such conclusion was warranted by Sonnet 20—the one on which
the imputation was generally made to rest. I told him I agreed
with him and had said this in my book ; but I repeated Sonnet
23, of the drift of which he evidently had no idea. Then he
admitted that he had never studied the Sonnets very closely—a
fact which I had already discovered.
    Then we conversed on other matters, and I found him kindly,
genial, and sensible. I liked the old gentleman well enough,
but I parted with him in some depression — for I saw more
plainly even than before that no one in my life-time is likely to

        3 14                         DEADLOCK                                 xxxvm
 1900 read, mark, learn and inwardly digest either my book or the
        immortal
        becomes,
        1899.] the
Act. 64 reading.    poems
                     However,
                        more
                           of whichpeople
                              doI shallitgotreats.
                                            seem
                                             on writing
                                                      havejust
                                                   toThe    utterly
                                                           moretheuniversal
                                                                    same.—[8
                                                                     lost thewriting
                                                                                Dec.
                                                                               art  of
                              Butler to Robert Bridges.
                                                                       3 Jan. 1900.
            My dear Bridges — I must not flood you with corre
        spondence—a poor return for your valued frankness—but I cannot
        let yours of December 31st 1899 go without acknowledgement.
        I have had influenza since the note I wrote to you on Friday
        and, though able to sit to a table today, am still a very poor
        creature. It came on all of a moment on Saturday.
             In your letter of December 28th you speak of gaps caused in
        your collection of my books by borrowers. Pray let me know
        what they are and I shall have great pleasure in supplying them ;
        the only book of which I am parsimonious is Unconscious Memory,
        which is going to be a scarce book and of which only four or
        five copies in my possession remain unsold. Many sheets were
        destroyed some years ago at Ballantyne's. Still, if you want a
        copy some one has got to have the few that remain ; only I like
        those that have copies now to know that the book is one that
        they will not easily replace if they lose it.
             For the rest I will restrain my animadversational mind qua
        ifou, but qua myself I shall write some few pages following your
         etter point by point and seeing how my rejoinders contrast with
        your objections. Dr. Garnett, who is evidently very much
        upset by my book, wrote me a long twelve-page letter on the
        subject flinging at my head everything that I had weighed and
        been unable to accept. Evidently he did not much care what he
        said, but held that any stick would be good enough to beat me
        with. To such letters I return whatever reply may seem most
        likely to bring the correspondence to an end. Your letter
        evidently expresses what you bona fide think and is therefore
        very valuable to me as showing what will probably strike other
        highly capable readers as well as yourself. . . .
             It is impossible that you should come to agree with me. You
        repeatedly speak of the Sonnets as "a poem," i.e. an organic
        whole. In this case no one sonnet can be without its influence
        on the others nor without being more or less covered by others.
        This view I cannot, and am sure that I never shall, accept ; it is
        obvious therefore that, until it is settled which of us is right on
        this head, we might talk long enough infructuously.
             [Robert Bridges had written : "My own key to the Sonnets

xxxvm                   CAGING THOUGHTS                                          315
has been that Shakespeare saw that ideal love could be heightened ,900
by dissociation from sex and, feeling for W. H. something of Aet. 64
this ideal love, he sought to give it poetic expression."]
    Secondly [continued Butler] your key to the Sonnets is all
very pretty for an elderly, or rather old, gentleman of 64 like
myself, or for one who, like you, is still a good few years off
21. We can imagine that healthy, vigorous-minded young men
of 21 can and do feel in this way, but I seem to hear "Venus
laughing from the Skies " as I read that part of your letter.
    [Robert Bridges had exclaimed: "Why did Shakespeare
never edit his own works ? Why did Socrates, Aristotle, and
Christ show the same indifference ? "]
    You ask [continued Butler], Why did Shakespeare not edit
his works ? I thought there was much force in what Nisbet
urged, a year or two ago,1 that Shakespeare's retirement to
Stratford was compulsory or, at any rate, on doctor's orders in
consequence of paralysis or nervous breakdown which r«pdered
further literary exertion irksome. As for Socrates and Christ,
they neither of them wrote. I know nothing about Aristotle,
but have we any reason to suppose that he did not leave his
writings, or at any rate some of them, finished ? I know
nothing of Aristotelian literature. Magnis componere parvum,
I have for some months been almost exclusively occupied in
" editing my remains " and have several more months' work
before I shall be satisfied that I have done the best I can for
myself and my executors.
    There ! When you have told me which of my books I can
supply you with, you shall have peace.—Yours very truly,
                                                                    S. Butler.
     Butler frequently did what he here threatens about
his animadversational mind qua himself. He used to
say he never could form an opinion on a subject until he
had captured his volatile thoughts and caged them in a
note. This enabled him to make up his mind, and he
was then ready to write a letter, or perhaps a book, or
else to leave the subject alone.
        The Bishop of London {Dr. Creightori) to Butler.
                                                         Fuliiam Palace, S.W.
                                                                Jan 6, 1900.
    Dear Butler—I have read your Shakespeare's Sonnets with
much interest. You have done all that can be done in the
     1 Cf. Tkt Insanity of Gtniui, by J. F. Niabet. 6th edition.  London, 19 iz.

        316                              REVIEWERS                                   xxxvm
 1900 name of common sense ; but people like literary problems and
Act. 64 they refuse to admit that a poet is a man and records all his
        experiences. Nowadays we write for publicity and only give so
        much of ourselves as we choose. But in an earlier and less
        sophisticated time a man revelled in expressing what he felt and
        was more interested in the expression than in considering how
        he would look as regards the subject matter.
             Aeneas Sylvius when he became Pope Pius II. neither
        attempted to suppress nor to apologise for early indiscretions in
        literature.—Yours very sincerely,                                M. London :
                                  Butler to Fernand Henry.
             22 Jan. 1900—I am glad the reviews of my book have left a
        more or less favourable impression upon you — my friends are
        dissatis/ied with them ; I am neither satisfied nor dissatisfied, the
        only criticism I care two straws about is criticism which reveals
        to me a mistake ; happily so far (except in the matter of the
        Rev. E. Malone) I have seen no objection brought forward
        which gives me any uneasiness.1
             I am sorry your French critics have treated you in a
        superficial manner, but I have always observed that it is only
        the shallow books that are received with a chorus of applause.
        The critics can understand these at once ; but as for being at
        any pains to study what requires sustained attention—is it to be
        expected of them? Besides — do you write reviews yourself?
        If you do, by all means let the fact be known in literary circles.
        The reviewers themselves sometimes write books and, if they
        know that you may be able to belaud them, they will belaud
        you ; otherwise if you write on a subject of which they know
        nothing, if they deign to notice you at all, they will make it
        quite plain that they have not thought it worth while to read
        what you have said. The art of reading is being rapidly lost ;
        there is nothing in journalism now but skim and a show of
        smartness.
             I fear you must not look for much sympathy here in
        England. It is as though we should expect the French to
        receive warmly an English translation of Moliere. You have
        Moliere himself and indeed I envy you ; it is only a very few
        who would occupy themselves with an English translation of
        his works. The Athenaeum, Spectator, Blackwood, Saturday
        Review, Fortnightly Review, National Observer and many other
        journals have had my book and so far have not paid the
            1 Butler headed chapter iii. of his book "The Rev. Edmond Malone," thus
        inadvertently usurping episcopal power* and ordaining the Shakespeare commentator.

xxxviii          FRIENDSHIP AND LOVE                            317
smallest attention to it beyond putting it (some of them, but not 1900
all) in their list of "Books received." English papers never Aet-6+
acknowledge a book which they do not review otherwise than by
putting it in their list of books received—they are so flooded
with books that they would have to keep a clerk for the
purpose. I often think that it is more or less infra dig. on
my part to send my books to one half of the papers, but my
publishers say that they had better be sent, and I do as other
people do ; but I am not fond of our English journalism.
     I do not wonder at the Sonnets remaining your great pre
occupation. They are the most wonderful things, to me, in all
literature. You ask, " Can we conclude from the general spirit
of his Sonnets that Shakespeare has intended and proclaims the
superiority of friendship over love ? "
     I do not for a moment believe that Shakespeare intended to
proclaim anything whatever by the Sonnets taken as a whole.
They are not a whole ; they are a number of units or strings of
units ; they were dictated by the feelings of the moment and the
circumstances of the moment, but there is no one idea running
through them save what was running through every day of
Shakespeare's life, i.e. his passion for Mr. W. H. and his gradual
estrangement from him. I cannot think that Shakespeare had
any arriere pensee when he wrote any single one of them ; he
meant just neither more nor less than what he said. Sometimes,
no doubt, he was telling lies, but he meant to tell them and he has
told them ; generally, however, he is speaking naked truth, and
the more his words are taken au pied de la lettre the better they
will be understood.
     Jan. 23—To repeat. In the letters which you are good
enough to encourage me to inflict upon yourself there is such
continuity as is dictated by continuity of time, qua both myself
and you, and by consequent continuity of both subject and
character, but there is no organised structure as of a scheme pre
conceived and its consequent execution. I hold this view so
strongly that I immediately reject any conclusions that I perceive
to be based on the view that Shakespeare's Sonnets had any back
bone of purpose running through them other than the expression
of his own feelings at the moment, or such desire to serve his
friend's real or supposed interests as the circumstances of the time
dictated. I believe half the mistakes that have been made about
the Sonnets to be due to their having been regarded as an
organised whole and not as a series of occasional letters.
      My dear Sir, take Sonnet 23 ; now can it conceivably be
 taken as an attempt to show that friendship is superior to love ?
 It says that Shakespeare wanted something which he is pleased to
 call "the perfect ceremony of love's rite," but which he cannot

        318               DATE OF THE SONNETS                             xxxv,,,
 1900 bring his tongue to utter in words, being afraid to trust his friend.
Aet. 64 This is what it says and what it means.
             I disapprove, as we all must, but I am not going to hold up
        hands in holy horror ; all depends upon age and upon the
        conduct of the person whom Shakespeare was addressing. If
        Shakespeare was very young and had been lured (as I make no
        question he had been) by a comely, heartless youth who was
        amusing himself at Shakespeare's expense, the sonnet is regrettable.
        I will not say that it would have been better if it had not been
        preserved, for I am by no means sure that we ought not to be
        very thankful that we have it in evidence ; I admit, however, that
        it is regrettable. But if written by a very young man who was
        being lured, lt for my part, find it venial. If written by a man of
        30, it is not venial. Hence the extreme importance of dating the
        Sonnets. All that we must think of Shakespeare must be
        tinctured by the conclusions we arrive at as to his age at the
        time he wrote the Sonnets and, though I trust that I have
        not allowed my passionate eagerness to defend Shakespeare to
        influence my judgement one way or the other, I am satisfied that I
        am right in regarding them as the first things that Shakespeare
        wrote and dating them 1 585-1 588.
             Take again Sonnets 57, 58. How can they be tortured into
        an attempt to proclaim the superiority of friendship over love ?
        They express bitter chagrin at his friend's not coming to see him,
        while Shakespeare was watching the clock, hour after hour, for
        his coming. This is what they appear to say, and I regard it
        as in a high degree perilous to try and make more out of them
        than what appears upon the face of them. And so with all the
        Sonnets.
             As regards Gerald Massey, I cannot take him to be a man of
        any weight. If you merely sent your book to him, without a
        letter accompanying it, he would not acknowledge it. I should
        myself acknowledge it in such a case, but when I send copies of
        my book unaccompanied by a letter I never receive an acknowledge
        ment. If you write along with the book you should receive an
        answer. The answers I commonly receive are to the effect that
        the writer has received my book and will read it with much
        interest. I never hear anything more, and make it a rule not to
        give copies to anyone except those who have sent me some work
        of their own, or to personal friends, or to some few who write and
        ask for it—which shows that they want it.
             Still, I think I should write, if I were you, to Professor Dowden,
         Buona Vista, Killiney, Ireland, and send him a copy. He is
         better than most of them ; but you will have already seen that I
        reject anything that has been done since Malone in 1794. He is
        the King of Shakespeare Commentators of the old school, but no

xxxvm                  COMMON SENSE                               319
longer up-to-date—still he is a better man than any of us. I very 1900
often agree with Dowden on points of detail, but he talks a good Aet. 64
deal of nonsense, too, and my dates are cataclysmic if it be once
admitted that they are well founded. As I have already said,
everything depends upon the question of the earlier or later date
which is to be assigned to the Sonnets. Every page of your
preface would require alteration if the earlier date is accepted—I
advise you, therefore, not to accept it.
     If, on the other hand, you accept it, really I cannot do better
for you as regards the history of Sonnet-criticism than refer you to
my own book in which I did the best of which I was capable. I
omitted nothing that I thought deserved attention.
     If you adhere to the later date, your introduction may be very
well allowed to stand as a careful resum£ of the most reputed
authors. I do not see Malone mentioned, nor yet Howard
Staunton, many of whose emendations I have adopted. He wrote
no special work on the Sonnets but published Shakespeare's com
plete works in 1864. His emendations were communicated to
 The Athenaeum. I knew him slightly and thought very highly of
him. I have plenty more to say but no more paper.
                     Robert Bridges to Butler.
     25 'Jan. 1900—I am very sorry indeed that you have been
so clever as to make up so good (or bad) a story ; but I willingly
recognise that no one has brought the matter into so clear a light
as you have done. You are always perspicuous and nothing but
good can come of such conscientious work as yours. Still you
must remember that you proved Darwin to be an arch-impostor ;
and there was no fault in your logic. It is not the logic which
fails in this book.
                     Butler to Robert Bridges.
                                                         j Feb. 1900.
     My dear Bridges—It is never kind to answer letters at once
(unless under necessity) when the sender has sickness in his house.
"And therefore have I slept" in my reply to yours of Jan. 25th.
     Neither will I reply now. After a full two years, during
which I had the Sonnets in my mind almost night and day, I
formed my conclusions concerning them and I verily believe that
I have, to quote the Bishop of London's words to me in writing
about my book, "done all that can be done in the name of
 common sense." I am sorry that you dislike my theory ; I have
 made it quite clear that I do not like it myself, but I believe it to

          32o             " MY PRECIOUS WORKS
 1900 be sound and I believe also that those whose moral support I
Aet. 64. alone look to will in the end feel that I have done a pious act in
          writing what I have written. There !
              And now let me beg you to repair an omission—I don't
         think this is quite a correct way of stating the case, but let it
          pass—in your last letter. You were to tell me what lacunae in
          your collection of my precious works it may be my privilege to
         supply—There again ! I do not believe one can supply a lacuna,
         can one ? but let it pass. Anyhow, tell me which of my books I
         may send you and believe me with every good wish for the
         speedy return of your household to perfect health—Yours very
         truly,                                                S. Butler.
                              Butler to Robert Bridges.
              6 Feb. 1900—I cannot supply a copy of the first edition of
         Erewhon, but heard the other day of its having been seen on a
         second-hand bookstall marked " 6d. very readable." If I see
         one myself at that figure I will purchase it and send it on.
              As you very well know, I am a prose man and, except Homer
         and Shakespeare, I have read absolutely nothing of English
         poetry and very little of English prose. What with music (and
         I am much occupied with the orchestration of Ulysses) and
         reading what I must read for my own subjects, and writing, I
         have no time for general reading and am far more ignorant of
        your poetry — beyond a strong residuary impression that you
        stand at the top of the tree among living poets — than I can
         easily excuse myself for being. If, then, your books are your
         own, kindly send me enough to inform me more particularly, but
         if they are publishers' books, do not send me any : I pledge you
         my word I will get them out at the British Museum, where I
         go daily, and will read, mark, learn and inwardly digest them.
             You say you have many books. I have, I verily believe, the
        smallest library of any man in London who is by way of being
        literary. I receive a goodish few books from Italy in the course
        of the year, and 1 always give them at once to the British
        Museum, which I consider my private library and where I alone
        do any reading at all except the papers which, in these days,
        cannot be studied under from an hour to an hour and a half a
         day.
             By way of refinement I am going to the Grand Pantomime
        at Islington this evening and heartily hope that it may be amusing
        as well as vulgar.
              A passage in the foregoing letter will make it clear
         why Mr. Higgs, in chapter i. of Erewhon Revisited, had

 xmvi.1      TWO SIDES OF LITERATURE                             321
recently heard . that Erewhon had " been seen on a second- 19°°
 hand bookstall marked ' 6d. very readable.' "                       et' 4
      Butler and I went to Harwich from Saturday to
 Monday early in February 1900, taking with us some of
the books which Mr. Bridges had sent.
                    Butler to Robert Bridges.
                                                      14 Feb. 1900.
     My dear Bridges—Of course we were of a mind that they
were written " in polished form of well refined pen " and we were
especially impressed with the beauty and perfect workmanship of
" Eros and Psyche " which carried both of us with it from
beginning to end. The residuary impression, which I had
already formed by having read extracts, was fully confirmed, and
we had no question that we were reading poetry of a very high
order ; but as regards myself, you know as well as I do that I am
not a poetically minded man, and I am afraid I must admit that
the same holds good as regards Jones. I have never read and
never, I am afraid, shall read a line of Keats or Shelley or
Coleridge or Wordsworth except such extracts as I occasionally
see in Royal Academy Catalogues. I have read The Idylls of the.
King and I do not like them. I have never read a word of
Browning—save as above. The poets of the day are names to
me and nothing more. I have read "Venus and Adonis" and
" Lucrece " but neither of them kindles any warmth within
me — admiration for marvellous workmanship, but nothing
more. I do assure you that if I were told and satisfied that
"Eros and Psyche" was a third poem by the same hand as
"Venus and Adonis" and "Lucrece" I should have felt no
incongruity, except as regards the far greater degree of classical
knowledge. It abounds in " precious phrase by all the Muses
filed " ; but there is no concealing the fact that it is the
business, practical side of literature and not the poetical and
imaginative—-I mean literature applied to the solving of some
difficult problem which may be usefully solved—that alone fires
me with hot desire to devour and imitate it. That, and the
battering down of falsehood to the utmost of my poor ability.
     How then can I criticise and appraise your poems as I am
fully convinced they deserve to be appraised ? Besides, who
can appraise contemporary literature ? It is most certain that
neither you nor I can form even an approximate idea of what
our respective literary positions will be fifty years after we are
dead ; for it would be mere affectation on the part of either of
us to doubt that a position of some sort will be awarded to us—
to you as a poet, to me as a prose writer. There lives not the
     VOL. II                                                 Y

        322               "AN AWFUL BEAST"                         xxxvm
  1900 person who can tell either of us, and, for my part, did I know
Aet. 64 such a person, I would implore him not to tell me. Let us do
        what we can and be thankful for every year that we are allowed
        to work at all.
            Your play I have not yet begun to read. It is my custom
        to read a play of Shakespeare's nightly before I go to bed for
        some twenty minutes, reading only those that I like—for some
        of them I dislike—over and over again. He shall stand aside for
        a time and The Feast of Bacchus shall take his place — but I
        tremble—still it shall be done.
            I feel an awful beast for not being other than I am, but beast
        or no beast, I am always very truly yours,           S. Butler.
             The statement that he only read poetry in Royal
        Academy Catalogues is a reminiscence of what T. W. G.
        Butler used to say of himself (ante, I. p. 135).              But
        Butler did occasionally exceed the limits' of the Royal
        Academy Catalogue and even of The Daily Telegraph.
        For instance, he came home once from staying at Wilder-
        hope, where he had found a volume of Wordsworth's
        poems selected by Matthew Arnold, and told me that it
        contained a great deal that he had admired.               Garnett
        gave him a copy of Select Letters of Percy Bysshe Shelley
        (1882) which he had edited, and Butler read not only all
        the Garnett and some of the letters, but was led to look at
        Shelley's poems, which he said were too little the " business,
        practical side of literature " and too much " the poetical
         and imaginative." Business here, of course, has nothing
         to do with commerce. He uses the word as he used it
         when saying, for instance, " It is an author's business to
         make his meaning clear.          He must see to it that the
         manner does not obscure the matter." While Fernand
         Henry was translating FitzGerald's Rubdiydt I read
         Butler a few quatrains of the English, and he was very
         much pleased with them.            He said they were sincere
         (which was perhaps the highest praise that could come
         from him), and far better than anything he remembered
         in Tennyson. He had read a great deal of Tennyson at
         Cambridge, and occasionally quoted from the poems.
         When it was rough at Boulogne at Christmas, or if we
         were in a gorge with a torrent in Switzerland or Italy, he
         was almost certain to say :

 xxxvm                        «« FRANKLY "                                  323
      " I hear the roaring of the sea, Oriana.                    Do you hear 190°
the roaring of the sea, Oriana ? "                                              Aet- 6*
                        Butler to Robert Bridges.
     20 Feb. 1900—I finished The Feast of Bacchus last night and
can now reply to yours of Feb. 16. I found The Feast of Bacchus
very pleasant reading throughout, and was never tempted to
desist, for the action does not drag anywhere and the dialogue is
easy and natural. In fact I liked the play very much and I
should think it would act well as well as read well. I should
certainly say Send the other plays, but that I should really prefer
to get them at the Museum. It is nothing to me to give away
books. I always have many more printed than are likely to be
wanted, and those that prove to be actually wanted are far fewer
than those I imagined likely to be wanted, so thus I have
abundance of copies actually doing nothing ; but, as a com
promise, let me ask you to send me two more and I will get the
rest at the Museum.
     I will not fail to read your Essay on Keats 1 which I can also
see at the Museum.
     I suppose I must have eaten something that has disagreed
with me for I am out of sorts to-day, though not seriously j I
will therefore only repeat my thanks for your goodness.
                       Butler to Robert Bridges.
                                                                 3 March 1900.
     My dear Bridges—Seldom have I had a more difficult task
than that of replying to yours of Feb. 21 which accompanied
your plays. Perhaps that is the reason why I have let some ten
days go by without acknowledging their arrival and thanking
you for them. There was also the better reason that I wished
to have read at least a couple of them before I wrote ; and I read
little, as I have already explained, and that little slowly.
     My trouble is this ; that there is much that I cordially
admire in the Nero Part II. and The Return of Ulysses (which
last I have not yet finished) but that I must frankly confess (how
I hate that word " frankly " ! a man is always going to lie when
he uses it) that I should never have read either of them if they
had been written by anyone else. I should never write this if I
were not certain that you would rather have me write exactly
what I feel.
               1 In Poems of John Keats (Tit Muses' Library), 1896.

         324               CRITICISM OF BRIDGES                       xxxvm
 1900         For instance, in the Nero the versification is beyond praise—
Act. 64 easy, dignified, and in accordance with the best literary canons.
         Take the speech of Thrasea lines 50-75, it is admirable in con
         ception and execution. The prose dialogue, too, is excellent in
         sc. ii. (except that I do not like " Niobby "), sc. iii. and sc. iv.
         Two speeches of Seneca, nothing could be better. I do not like
         " long-nosed cad " early in Act II., just as I did not like " the
         governour" and "all's serene" and "Pam" for Pamphilus in
          The Feast of Bacchus. But these are small blemishes.
              I will not go through the play, but I assure you I found it
         abound with finely-thought and finely-worded passages. So I
         find King Lear and Othello abound with gems of the purest
         lustre, but I do not like either of these plays and never read
       • them—for the horror and repulsiveness of the story. The fault
         of being unable to delight in these great masterpieces, or rather
         of being repelled by them, is in myself not in them. As my old
         and deplored friend Miss Savage used to tell me, I have a tete
         bornee (I think t6te is feminine, is it not ?) and unless I can take
         a warm, sympathetic interest in the main characters of any work,
         I do not like it.
              So with The Return of Ulysses. Saturated as I am with the
         Odyssey I do not like having my conception of Eumaeus and
         Ulysses treated in such cataclysmic fashion. When you stick to
         the Odyssey (which I am sure you will not henceforth speak of as
         Homer's) I am thoroughly with you. Would that it had pleased
         heaven to make you translate the whole Odyssey as you have
         translated or closely followed it in your lines 1700 to 1800
         (thereabouts). Believe me, I want nothing better. I should
         never have done the work into prose had such a translation
         existed or had I been gifted with that power of poetic expression
         which I know myself to lack.
              There ! I shall read all your plays from end to end and
         value them in spite of my conviction that I shall not probably be
         in full sympathy with any one of them. I shall also read the
         Introduction to Keats, but I have already told you that Keats
         is a name to me and nothing more ; if he was ever going to be
         more, some magnet would have drawn us together before now ;
         and I assure you I am beginning to feel that my period of active
         work is manifestly drawing to a close.
              Thank you for pointing out the silly slip in contents of
         //. Bk. viii. Brain fag can alone explain it I am not surprised
         that you do not find the Iliad readable as a consecutive poem.
         I do, in spite of considerable tracts that would surprise me by
         their perfunctoriness if I had not fully persuaded myself that
         Homer wrote them perfunctorily on purpose and with an eye to
         an audience whom he had to flatter but whom he hated and

xxxv.n           THE ONLIE BEGETTER                           325
despised. He was, I am confident, as much bored by them (but 1900
for the amusement it gave him to hoodwink his audience) as we Aet- 64
are.—Believe me, with repeated thanks, Yours very truly,
                                                     S. Butler.
     In The Athenaeum of 24th March 1900 the following
letter appeared as part of a correspondence which was then
proceeding about the phrase " onlie begetter" used in the
dedication of Shakespeare's Sonnets.
            Butler to the Editor o/The Athenaeum.
    Canon Ainger in your issue of March 17 contends that the
primary meaning of to beget is to bring about. It follows that
the primary meaning of begetter should be bringer about.
    Thorpe's dedicatory address begins: "To the onlie begetter
of these insuing Sonnets Mr. W. H." Few will raise much
objection to understanding these words as "To Mr. W. H. the
only bringer about of these ensuing Sonnets."
    Canon Ainger continues : " In Mr. Lee's interpretation of
the famous phrase, W. H. is addressed as the man who ' brought
about ' the publication of the Sonnets ; and it certainly seems to
me that such explanation is perfectly legitimate."
    Where is the legitimacy of smuggling in "the publication
of" ? To bring about the Sonnets is one thing, to bring about
the publication of the Sonnets is another.          S. Butler.

                          CHAPTER XXXIX
                                  1900—Part II
        THE ODrSSET RENDERED INTO ENGLISH PROSE
1900 Mr. Fuller Maitland had written a magazine article
 *• 4 of which he sent the MS. to Butler for his advice as to
      how it could be improved, several editors having refused
      it : Butler recommended that it should be shortened.
                       Butler to J. A. Fuller Maitland.
           29 March 1 goo—I know how I kick when Waddington
      makes me cut out bars, but reflection always convinces me that he
      is right, and I have altogether jettisoned 22 bars out of 88 in the
      song on which I am now engaged [for Ulysses], I believe in nine
      cases out of ten the pruning-knife is the most effective remedy
      whether in writing or music.
           All the rest of the article seemed to •me charming—I mean
      the poor man's verses about England and 75 per cent of the
      proverbs are racy and quite (to borrow a phrase I have seen in
      musical criticisms in The Times) "acceptable." I believe a little
      cutting down is all that is wanted.
            The reader should perhaps be reminded that Mr.
      Fuller Maitland was himself the musical critic for The
      Times, and that the Waddington who made Butler cut out
      bars was the Mr. Sydney Pearce Waddington who, since
      Rockstro's death, had been helping us with Ulysses
      (ante, p. 231).
            On 30th January 1900 my mother died at Nice. By
      her will she left me sufficiently provided for, and there
      upon Butler stopped the allowance he had been making
      to me.       I proposed to repay him the amount I had
                                       326

                               •yzzut*
O). t J() litis*- a4> r sfft-m
   iy (yfifrorrfo t Jmi


x««              A BRITISH SUBJECT                        327
received from him during the thirteen years since his 1900
father's death, but he would not hear of it. Before his Aet- 6+
death, however, I executed a covenant that my executors
should, after my death, repay the amount to him, or to
his estate.
     In March I went to Nice to stay with my sisters, who
were making arrangements to give up my mother's
apartment there. Monsieur Fernand Henry came over
from his residence at Le Muy, not far from Nice, to
lunch with us. He was considering what English poem
he should translate into French to follow his translation
of the Sonnets, and I gave him a copy of FitzGerald's
Rubiiydt of Omar Khayyam for his consideration. He
was so much pleased with it that he started at once to
turn it into French verse, and his version was published
in 1903.
     On 13th April I left my sisters and went to Genoa,
where I met Butler who had come by his usual route,
stopping at Basel and Casale. We went together through
Pisa to Rome where we saw Peppino Pagoto, who was
there doing his military service. We met the Rev. E. H.
Burtt, the English chaplain at Genoa, with whom Butler
made the excursion to Mycenae (ante, p. 213). We went
to Segni, Salerno, Paestum, and by train to Reggio,
crossed to Messina and stayed at Taormina about a week.
Mario Puglisi came up from Aci Reale to spend the day
with us and to talk about the Odyssey.
     On 2nd May we went to Siracusa and crossed to
Malta. It was exceedingly rough and I was very ill ; we
arrived in Valletta harbour soon after midnight, and it was
all I could do, even with Butler's help, to crawl out of the
cabin and into the custom-house.
     " Are you a British subject ? " inquired the officer.
     "Yes," I replied, " you wouldn't think it to look at
me, but I am."
     Whereupon Butler, who was not a bit ill, burst out
laughing ; but I saw nothing to laugh at.
     We spent a week in Malta and saw Hagiar Kim, and
the other early stone remains in the island and in Gozo.
We returned to Siracusa and went through the island to

         328           UN VIOLINO VECCHIO                       xxx.x
  1900 Palermo and thence to Calatafimi, where Ingroja met us
Aet- 6* and took us to the Albergo Centrale where we always
        stayed. One does not, of course, expect to find in a
        town so remote from the track of the tourist all the
        luxury and profusion of a modern caravanserai in Rome,
        Paris or London. Occasionally a commercial traveller
        puts up at the albergo ; or the architect who comes to
        examine and report upon the condition of the temple or of
        the monument recording Garibaldi's victory ; and every
        now and then some one may stay the night on his way to
        Segesta. Nevertheless we always found everything perfect.
        Moreover, supposing that the hotel had any drawbacks,
        we should have found more than sufficient compensation in
        making the acquaintance of Donna Maria and Don Paolo,
        two of the most charming old people imaginable. She must
        have been a beautiful woman in her youth, and when we
        told her so, as many did, she used to agree with a smile.
        It might not perhaps be so easy to come to any very
        general agreement as to precisely when she was at her prime.
        She told us she was three times twenty, plus eight, and
        Don Paolo four times twenty, minus three ; but, according
        to some, she had been saying this for years, and must have
        repeated it at least as often as Garibaldi repeated " Roma
        o Morte ! " People who can neither read nor write, and
        who give the result of their calculations on their fingers,
        are perhaps not the most accurate arithmeticians. Ingroja,
        however, assured us that she was really not far out.
            She was a Mrs. Quickly alia Siciliana, with a good deal
        of La Martina of Civiasco about her. When we first
        knew her she still possessed a tooth—a long one in front ;
        this year the tooth was gone ; it had fallen out and she
        was doing as well as she could with none. By way of
        comforting her for her loss Butler, thinking of Mrs. jupp
        in chapter lxi. of The Way of All Flesh, went so far
       as to say :
            " Si puo suonare una bella melodia sul violino
        vecchio."
            She acknowledged the compliment with a smile, but
        was disappointed that she could not persuade him to go
        farther.

xxxix             VISITING THE SICK                     329
     It must have been this year that, as we were walking 19°°
about the town with Ingroja, he called our attention to et" 4
the inscription over the gateway of the Ospedale Lo
Truglio, saying that the words would encourage the
passer-by to visit the sick ; whereupon Butler said :
    " Well then, that won't do for me. Now, Jones,
please to remember that when I am ill I am not to be
brought here. Let's look at the words : ' Infirmus eram
et visitasti me.'    Oh ! I don't mind that ; that is
not an invitation, it is a reproach ; it does not
mean ' Please come in,' it means, • This must not occur
again.
    And he repeated the inscription, filling up the
harmonies in a tone of such stern disapproval that it
would have broken any one's heart to have deserved the
rebuke.
    We intended this year to drive to Trapani, but
Ingroja would not allow it, although we had done so
before. This year it was not considered safe. Once, at
Girgenti, the landlord of the hotel would not let us drive
to Sciacca ; and once, when Butler went from Catania to
Palermo through the island, soldiers were sent in the train,
but that was because a deputato was travelling. In 1898,
when we were at Taormina, there were strikes, and
soldiers were sent to keep order ; and the same year we
crossed from Messina to Naples and there were prisoners
in the steamer. With these exceptions, we never saw any
indication that Sicily was a country particularly liable to
disturbances, nor of its being a place in which one was
more liable to be robbed of one's watch and chain than
one is in London.
    At Trapani we saluted all our friends, then returned
to Palermo and went by sea to Naples. We were in
Rome on the 20th of May and heard there of the Relief
of Mafeking. We sketched for a week at Siena and for
another week at Sammichele, in the valley of Susa, which
was full of cuckoos crying to one another all day long,
major thirds, minor thirds, fourths and even seconds.
We then called at Casale-Monferrato and Basel and
returned to London on t2th June.

        330             NELSON AT PALERMO                          xxxIX
 190064 representing
Aet.                   King Ferdinand
             In the Museum       at Palermo
                                         visiting
                                               there
                                                  the are twofishery
                                                       tunny           at
                                                                pictures
        Solunto, near Palermo. In one of them a boat is passing
        the King's barge and a gentleman in the boat is saluting
        His Majesty. This gentleman resembles Lord Nelson.
        We had seen the picture over and over again, and always
        spoke of the gentleman as Nelson.            This year Butler
        determined to settle the question of whether it could be
        so. The costumes were about right, but the gentleman
        apparently had not lost an arm, still that might be
        poetical license ; and then, at what date did Nelson lose
        his arm ? and which arm ? and what was the date of the
        picture ? and how could he find out whether Nelson and
        Ferdinand were both in Palermo at the season of the
        tunny fishing ? and if so, when ? He had discovered
        portraits of Giovanni and Gentile Bellini, of Leonardo da
        Vinci, of Tabachetti ; if he could add to his gallery a
        hitherto undiscovered portrait of Nelson it would be
        another feather in his cap.
             We had had some conversation with Ingroja about
        the picture and, on our return to London, Butler wrote
        asking him to make investigations into questions that
        could not be settled by referring to easily accessible
        printed books in the British Museum.            Ingroja threw
        himself into the affair with enthusiasm, went to Palermo,
        saw Commendatore Salinas at the Museum there, consulted
        authorities as to the dates, and wrote down his conclusions
        in long letters which we had the greatest difficulty in
        deciphering.     After tabulating the information Butler
        reluctantly came to the conclusion that the facts were
        against him and that the likeness to Nelson must have
        been accidental.     So he did not have to write a book
        about it.
                         Butler to the Dean of Bristol.
                                                           8 Aug. 1900.
            Dear Sir—Some time ago my cousin, Mr. [Philip] Worsley,
        of Rodney Lodge, Clifton, told me that you had spoken, and
        also printed something about my book Erewhon. He said you
        had taken it seriously and he seemed surprised. I, on the other
        hand, was surprised (and, I may add, shocked) that anyone

xxxix              DISEASE AND CRIME                        331
could doubt my having been serious—very much so—in my 1900
own way.                                                          Aet- 64
    My cousin promised to send me a copy of what you had
written, but he has not been able to procure one, and in a letter
which I received from him this morning he recommends me to
apply to yourself, which I accordingly do.
    I am the more anxious to read your criticism, be it adverse
or the contrary, because I am almost immediately about to make
a second journey to Erewhon in the person of my supposed son
and to report sundry developments.
    With much apology for troubling you, Believe me, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,                                  S. Butler.
     Dean Pigou, thinking that Butler would be the best
judge, sent him a copy of a paper he had read " On the
Relation of Disease to Crime " in which he had referred
to Erewhon.        Butler's views on the analogy between
crime and disease, as set forth in Erewhon, were still
being treated, for the most part, as fantastic paradox ;
nevertheless there were some even then, and there are
more every year, who understand and agree with him
seriously.
                    Butler to Lord Grimthorpe.
    13 Aug. 1900—I am putting my complete translation of the
Odyssey through the press, and propose to adnotate the hanging
of the maids by Telemachus as by the enclosed copy which you
need not return.
    I think you gave me permission to use your letter a twelve
month ago, but I prefer to send you exactly what I propose to
say. If you wish anything altered, kindly let me know ; if the
thing may stand as it is, pray do not trouble to write ; I shall
understand.
     Lord Grimthorpe had been il), but was now better
and writing to the papers about an " idiotic phantom
deanery " and a new weathercock made of bell-metal with
a piece of agate inside the cock. He gave his consent,
and Butler inserted his remarks about the hanging of the
maids on p. 298 of the translation of the Odyssey.
     In August Hans Faesch was in Europe again, and I
went to stay with him and his family on the Rigi-
Scheidegg. Butler joined us there. One very rainy day

        332                    THE PREISLIED                         x«™
 1900 the guests, who were mostly Swiss and Germans, assembled
A«. 64 m the salon and there was music. Many of the guests
       sang and played extremely well and none of the music
       was trivial. Presently a girl of about 14, accompanied
       quite sufficiendy well by her aunt or governess, was set
       to play on the violin some arrangement of the " Preislied "
       from the Meistersinger. The piece was so far beyond
       her powers that the performance would have been
       painful if we had not felt that we were merely giving the
       child an opportunity of playing before some kind of
       audience.
            " That is very beautiful music she is playing," said
       Buder to me ; " what is it ? "
            So intent was his mind upon 'the essential meaning of
       the composer that he was able to neglect the unessential
       defects of the performance ; just as Handel walked
       through the absurdity of the words that were given him
       and seized upon and set to music the sentiment which he
       recognised as underlying them. Butler had heard the
       " Preislied " sung by Edward Lloyd at a Richter Concert
       some time before, but he had forgotten the fact ; never
       theless the music was, I suppose, not absolutely new to
       his unconscious self. He must have been the only person
       in the room who derived any pleasure from the child's
       performance. When I was compiling the Note-Books I
       remembered this incident as an illustration of
                         Conveyancing and the Arts
           In conveyancing the ultimately potent thing is not the deed
       but the invisible intention and desire of the parties to the deed ;
       the written document itself is only evidence of this intention and
       desire. So it is with music : the written notes are not the main
       thing, nor is even the heard performance ; these are only evidences
       of an internal, invisible emotion that can be felt but never fully
       expressed. And so it is with the words of literature and with the
       forms and colours of painting.
            Butler went to Wassen where he sketched while I
      visited various Swiss friends and made a short tour with
       Hans Faesch. We were both back in London by the
      end of September.

 xxxix                 FERNAND HENRY                                333
      Fernand Henry had finished his translation of the 19°°
 Rub&iyit and proposed to dedicate it to me. He sent Aet-6*
 the draft of his dedication for Butler's opinion.
                      Butler to Fernand Henry.
                                                        1 October 1900.
     My dear M. Henry . . . Nothing, it seems to me, could
 be better or more gracefully done than the dedication as it stands,
 and I have no suggestions to make.
     As regards your queries, " Mon cher ami " is quite right.
     Jones is plain "Henry Festing Jones, Esq.," and nothing
 more. The " Esq." is not de rigueur, but I see I have put it in in
 my dedications to other people.
     " Si haute, si grave, si intensement psychologique " [applied
 to la poesie anglaise]. By "psychologique" I presume you
 mean " dealing with mental rather than with physical ideals." If
 so, the word may stand.         Otherwise I am not sure that I
 apprehend the exact meaning you attach to it.
     "Si nuancee et si fortement condensee" is quite right [applied
 to la pensee de FitzGerald].
     The only word about which I am in doubt is " fresque " as
 applied to a poem which was written and rewritten more than
 even twice ; whereas a fresco must be done without any
 pentimento, each day's task being finished once for all then and
 there ; but this is a very small criticism and your nation has wisely
 taught us that " le mieux est l'ennemi du bien." I might add, in
 words with which you are indeed familiar,
               Were it not sinful, then, striving to mend,
               To mar the subject that before was well ?
                                                       (Sonnet 103.)
So let " fresque " stand.
     Allow me, now, to congratulate you upon the completion of a
task the arduous nature of which has been explained to me by
Jones. Alas ! I have never read FitzGerald's poem—it seems
to me that I have hardly read anything at all—but, by Heaven, I
will borrow it from Jones and read it. As for your translation,
may it be crowned, as I have no doubt it will be, by that august
body which did like honour to your earlier translation !
    Jones tells me, to my great regret, that there is some doubt
about your coming to London. I trust that your visit will not,
at any rate, be very long delayed. As for me, I have just put my
Odyssey through the press, and this, I very well know, will not be
crowned with public approbation. "At mihi plaudo," as I am
afraid I am only too apt to do.

        334               "SEARCHER OF SOULS"                                 xxx.x
 19006+ I wiH
Aet.            venture of
             " Searcher  to souls
                            quote" inI am
                                       full tempted
                                             as thinking  it likelyin that
                                                     to exclaim,           youwhich
                                                                       words    may
        not have seen them :
                     Searcher of souls, you who in heaven abide,
                     To whom the secrets of all hearts are open,
                     Though I do lie to all the world beside,
                     From me to you no falsehood shall be spoken.
                     Cleanse me not, Lord, I say, from secret sin,
                     But from those faults which he who runs may see ;
                     'Tis these that torture me, O Lord begin
                     With them and let the hidden vices be.
                     If you must cleanse these too, at any rate
                     Deal with the seen sins first, 'tis only reason,
                     They being so gross, to let the others wait
                     The leisure of some more convenient season.
                             And cleanse not all, even then ; leave me a few,
                             I would not be, not quite, so pure as you.
             One of my sins, which even the fastest runners have not
        failed to note, is a tendency to be inordinately well satisfied with
        my own work.
             And so, my dear Sir, with much apology for having inflicted
        so long a letter upon you, pray believe me, Yours very truly,
                                                                   S. Butler.
             Butler was not familiar with the writings of Voltaire,
        so he probably did not know that among the Contes en
        Vers is one, " La Begueule, Conte Moral," which begins :
                        Dans ses ecrits, un sage Italien
                        Dit que le mieuz est l'ennemi du bien,
             And in the Dictionnaire Philosophique the article
        " Art Dramatique " ends with this quotation :
                               II meglio e 1' inimico del bene.
             I do not know whether we may conclude from this
        that the saying is of Italian origin, but if Butler had
        thought so he would have been even more apt to quote it
        than he was, and he quoted it very often.
             There are a few unimportant variations in the sonnet
        as written in Butler's letter and as given in The Note-
        Books. Probably he wrote it in the letter from memory.
             In October Butler received a letter from William
        Rolleston who was on a visit to England and proposed a

 xxxix                FOREIGN VISITORS                           335
 meeting. Rolleston was the "exceedingly humane and 19°°
judicious bullock-driver " at the station where Butler put et* 4
 up for the night on one of his excursions when looking for
country in New Zealand (ante, I. p. 78). I regret that I
 have not found anything showing for certain that they met
and I do not remember, though my impression is that they
did. If so, it must have been a meeting full of strange
echoes recalling half-forgotten incidents of their youth.
     On the 1 8 th October 1900 we received the first copy
 of The Odyssey rendered into English prose for the use of
those who cannot read the original. The motto on the title
page is :
     From some points of view it is impossible to take the
Odyssey seriously enough ; from others it is impossible to take it
seriously at all ; but from whichever point of view it be regarded,
its beauty is alike unsurpassable.
                                   {Private letter to the author.)
     In his translation of the Odyssey he followed those
principles which he laid down for himself in the preface
to his translation of the Iliad (ante, p. 298).
     In October Fernand Henry came to London for a few
days. Butler took him to the British Museum and showed
him, among other things, the first edition of FitzGerald's
Rubdiydt. My sister Lilian had left Nice and established
herself in a flat at Hampstead ; we got her to invite us
and also Fernand Henry to dine with her there.
     Signora Coppo, from the Rosa Rossa at Casale, was in
London with her son Angelo, and we made use of the flat
again to entertain them. Butler also had them to dine at
the Holborn Restaurant, but a restaurant is less interesting
than a private house for a foreigner who wants to see
something of the life of the people.
     In November Hans Faesch was in London, to make
preparations for returning to Vien-tiane in the Shan
States, and again we used the flat to entertain him. Early
in December we saw him ofF from Waterloo Station for
Havre en route for Vien-tiane ; and this was the last
time we saw him.
     Some years before this, at the house of the Fuller

         336             AUGUSTINE BIRRELL                     xxxix
 1900 Maitlands, we had met Miss Edith Sichel ; we had been
Act. 64 t0 ner house and she and Mrs. Fuller Maitland had been
         to tea with Butler and also with me. Miss Edith Sichel
         knew Mr. Augustine Birrell and he desired to make
        Butler's acquaintance. After a few attempts a meeting
        was arranged at Miss Sichel's house for one afternoon in
        December. I was also invited and arrived first. Then
        came Mr. and Mrs. Birrell. He recognised me for we
        had been undergraduates together at Trinity Hall,
        Cambridge. He had also seen my name in some of
        Butler's books and had been told he was to meet me ; but
        he had not realised that the Jones in the books was the
        Jones he remembered at Cambridge. When my identity
        had been settled Butler came. He was never at his best
        if he felt he was expected to show off, and on this occasion
        he was out of health and tired. Altogether I am afraid
        the meeting was not everything that Miss Sichel had
        hoped it would be. Butler scarcely spoke, and Birrell
        nobly sacrificed himself and, to avert a complete fiasco,
        took matters into his own hands. He gave us an account
        of how he had gone to Sheffield to lecture, and was
        entertained in the house of some wealthy people in the
        neighbourhood. After dinner they drove into the town
        and the young men of the house refused to come to the
        lecture—they preferred to go to a show where there were
       sea-lions—"And quite right of them, too," said Birrell.
       During this Butler sat silent and uninterested, but "genial"
       as he probably thought. When it was over and we were
        preparing to take our departure, something was said about
       Shakespeare, whereupon all his animation returned and, as
        Miss Sichel said to me afterwards, Birrell and Butler
        carried on a conversation which, though short, was as
        brilliant as any she had ever heard. I am afraid I had
       forgotten this conversation about Shakespeare till she
       reminded me of it. When I saw Butler so nervous and
        uncomfortable I was too anxious to get him away to pay
        much attention to anything else.

&
                Waikerph *
Gllkct b^wdM*
    tzt       ~>

            .^ ¦'. t«» "¦ <• !¦ "A
         '• worst it' it i; • i .; • • .- .
        r greatly less <>rK i< ¦      ¦ :."r-
        to realize li'uv r." ¦¦ h ,¦: '*
 '..•se whom to pain is i sc-c-n. ) .•!. r.
      Uccetta was a native of 1<\ >\--:".
•.nd retired to his village to e- i »¦ ¦
      VOL. II                            337
                                              '

/ c—
                       CHAPTER   1901    XL
                     EREWHON REFISITED
Butler was always ready to show his MS. to any one 1901
whose opinion he valued. He showed Erewhon Revisited^ Aet- 65
on which he had been busy for some time, to Mrs.
Fuller Maitland, whose opinion he valued very highly.
She took exception to a passage as being likely to cause
offence and he altered it.
              Butler to Mrs. J. A. Fuller Maitland.
     6 Feb. 1901 —Perhaps you know what the famous cook
Uccetta did when the late King of Italy and his brother (then
young) were dining at Fobello. Uccetta had exerted all his skill
and had turned out a dinner which he fondly believed would do
him credit. But alas ! it was a Friday, and he had made the
dinner grasso, whereas at the last moment it was discovered that
the princes would only eat magro. In two hours he turned his
grasso dinner into a magro one, and the princes never found out
how much grasso was inevitably left in what they declared to be
the most exquisite magro dinner that they had ever eaten.
    This is what I have attempted to do with my book. It did
not require many changes, and I am afraid some wicked grasso
will still remain, but when you read the book in print you will
be surprised to see how little change has effected how much.
    The worst of it is that the book is far more dangerous in its
present greatly less offensive form than it would have been had I
failed to realize how much of what I had written would pain
those whom to pain is a severe pain to myself.
      Uccetta was a native of Fobello near Varallo-Sesia,
and retired to his village to end his days there. Once
     vol. 11                     337                       z

       338                       BAD TASTE                            XL
 1901 when we were at Fobello we went to see him and his
Art 65 w}fe ancj Butler photographed them. This story of him
       may perhaps recall that other story of the Sultan challeng
       ing his jester, Ebn Oaz, to invent an excuse that should
       be worse than- the crime it was intended to excuse, referred
       to (ante, I. p. 175) apropos of the hiatus in Butler's letter
       to Miss Savage of 9th March 1873 about The Fair
       Haven.
            Mrs. Fuller Maitland wrote approving of the alteration
       and Butler replied.
                   Butler to Mrs. J. A. Fuller Maitland.
           10 Feb. 1901 —Thank you—with the utmost pleasure I will
       come to lunch with you on Sunday next at 1.30.
           I see from your very kind letter that there has been some
       misapprehension about my MS. Pray believe me I never meant
       any allusion whatever to the Founder of Christianity. I fear
       you must have thought I meant to suggest likeness to him in
       the Sunchild. I meant to show how myth, attended both by
       zealous good faith on the part of some and chicane on the part
       of others, would be very naturally developed in consequence of a
       supposed miracle, such as a balloon ascent would be to a people
       who knew nothing about such things ; and I meant to suggest a
       parallelism not between the Sunchild and Christ (which never
       even entered my head) but between the circumstances that would
       almost inexorably follow such a supposed miracle as the escape of
       the Sunchild, and those which all who think as I do believe to
       have accreted round the supposed miracle, not of the Ascension,
       but of the Resurrection. And I did not mean to poke fun at
       Christianity. Anything but. However, I must not do any
       thing that can be mistaken for this. I do not and never did wish
       to do so. I have given the amended MS. to Streatfeild and have
       urged him to call my attention to anything that is even bordering
       on "bad taste." Before I see you I shall have heard what he
       thinks and we can talk it over then. I thought calling the
       King " Cocksure " was very bad taste, and I changed him into
       " Wellbeloved " in the only place where it was necessary to give
       him a name and elsewhere simply call him the King.
           This time, please, no answer. You shall talk to me on
       Sunday, and I will listen, mark, learn and inwardly digest.
            We were to go to Sicily in the spring of 1901, but
       Butler wished first to finish and polish Erewhon Revisited

  xl                    HIGH ANGLICAN                            339
  and, if possible, to conclude negotiations with Longmans 1901
  for its publication, so I started first alone.                      et" s
                         Butler to H. F. Jones.
      23 March 1901 —Longman declines to publish my book for
  fear of giving offence to his connection among the High Anglican
  party. ... I replied, I did not gather that he thought the book
  would shock the general public ; "short of this," I wrote, "not
 having any connection with the High Anglican party, nor any
  immediate intention of trying to form one, I must aim at the
 general public whom I really do wish to please rather than at a
 class whose power, to my thinking, has increased, is increasing
 and ought to be abated." I shall call on him next week and try
 and pump him ; meanwhile on strong entreaty from Walker and
 Cockerell I have sent the MS. to Bernard Shaw and asked him
 to advise.
                  Butler to George Bernard Shaw.
      22 March 1901 — Longmans have had the MS. nearly a
 month and will not publish it even at my expense ; they say it
 will give offence to their connection among the High Anglican
 party—which I should think not improbable, for it is far more
 wicked than Erewhon.
      I want, if I can, to find a publisher who will take the book at
 his own risk—not because I cannot afford to take this myself, for
 I perfectly well can, but because I know it will fall flat unless it
is a publisher's book, and if in the hands of a capable man it
ought to do very well. If you can recommend me to a man in
whom I can have reasonable confidence and who will have the
like in me I shall hold myself much your debtor. At any rate, I
will try him.
   • I should say that I leave town on April 4 for Italy and Sicily
and shall not be back till about June 4. The concluding pages
will be written before I go.
     Again I ask your pardon for troubling you so seriously on so
small an acquaintance.
      Bernard Shaw replied on the 24th of March and, after
giving his opinion of Longman for refusing the book, con
tinued thus :
     But I should think you could have any of the younger
publishers for the asking, or without it, if they knew that you
were open to an offer.

          34o                    BERNARD SHAW                                   XL
  190165 whoMy
Aet.                no scruples
                has own          of isany
                         publisher      a kind.
                                          young villain
                                                  You had    better
                                                         named      let me
                                                                 Grant      show
                                                                        Richards
         him to you on approval. If you will come to lunch with us at
          1.30 say, on Wednesday or Thursday, I will invite Grant
         Richards, too. If you can persuade Walker or Cockerell or both
         to come along with you, do. We shall then feel at home and
         independent, as Richards will be in a hopeless minority. My
         wife is a good Erewhonian, and likes Handel ; you won't find
         her in any way disagreeable. And 10 Adelphi Terrace is within
         easy reach.
              I shall, of course, say nothing to Richards except that he will
         meet an eminent author, so that he will come as a palpitating
         fisherman. Publishing a sequel to Erewhon is an absolutely safe
         financial operation, as a sale sufficient to cover expenditure is
         certain. And as a young publisher would be glad to take you
         on at a loss for the sake of getting you on his list of authors, I
         shall be extremely surprised if you find the slightest difficulty so
         long as you avoid your own contemporaries, who are naturally
         all Buononcinists, so to speak.
              Let me have a line to Adelphi Terrace to say which day
         you'll come, so that I may write to Richards.
              I have started reading your MS. instead of doing my work.
         So far I am surprised to find that so confounded a rascal as your
         original hero did not become a pious millionaire ; otherwise he is
         as interesting as ever. More of this when I finish him.
               Naturally I wanted to include Bernard Shaw's letter
         in my book, but it seemed to me that his description of
         Mr. Grant Richards ought to undergo a little judicious
         editing before it appeared. I sent him a copy of the
         letter and asked what I should do. He appreciated my
         point and suggested an alteration ; he also made an
         alternative proposal :
              On the other hand he [Mr. Grant Richards] might like to
         have his connection with Butler recorded. Therefore I think
         the best course is to send him a copy of the letter and say that I
         could not consent to its publication without his approval. If he
         refuses, you can cook the letter as I have suggested in red ink.
              I followed the alternative proposal and received this
         reply from Mr. Grant Richards :
                                                8 St. Martin's Street,
                                        Leicester Square, W.C., May ijth, 1915.
              Dear Mr. Festing Jones—I have not the slightest objection
         to the Bernard Shaw letter appearing exactly as it was written.

 xl                    GRANT RICHARDS                            341
Mr. Shaw docs me an injustice in thinking I should prefer it to 1901
be edited. Indeed I very well remember meeting Samuel Butler. Aet- 6S
 I believe I am right in saying that I was the first publisher to
take any financial risk in the publication of any of his books.
     I have a photograph here in my office inscribed "To Grant
 Richards, Esquire, with S. B.'s very kind regards," and he gave
me the Press copy with his autograph corrections of Erewhon
 Revisited. He lunched with me on several occasions.
     Shaw did tell me that I was going to meet Butler. I am
under the impression that he told me why I was to meet him,
but he also told me that I should find him "a shy old bird."—
Sincerely yours,                               Grant Richards.
      I considered myself unfortunate in being out of
England, so that I could not accompany Butler to lunch
with Bernard Shaw ; true, I was not invited, but that
initial difficulty need not have been prohibitive. It must
have been an amusing party, and Butler told me nothing
about it except the business result, which was that Grant
Richards agreed to publish the book ; but he wanted it
to be finished at once and printed in England so that he
could take the sheets with him to America, starting about
the middle of May. He also agreed to publish a new
edition of Erewhon, for which Butler was to supply enough
new matter to give it a fresh copyright, and the two
books were to be published simultaneously. Consequently
Butler could not join me so soon as we had intended and
I stayed at Pisa waiting for him. He finished Erewhon
Revisited at Harwich, where he went for a week-end, and
the proofs began to come.
                        Butler to H. F. Jones.
     27 April 1901 —I have 16 pages of proof. I think the page
ugly but Walker and Cockerell pass it, so I expect it will be all
right, and after all it does not matter. Streatfeild is reading it for
me—and Alfred, who found three slips which both Streatfeild
and I had overlooked. Streatfeild is a very engaging person and
he is quite eager about it.
     What is your practice as regards the meat which has made a
soup ? I have rather taken to making myself a nightly soup,
boiling the meat some two and a half hours in the morning,
letting it cool, taking the fat off in the evening and boiling again

        342                        PESARO                              xl
 1901 with vegetables for an hour and a half. Is the meat then good
Aet. 65 for anything or no ? I eat some but find it rather uninteresting,
        though the soup is excellent. The wood-pigeons have hatched
        two young ones in the middle of our square.
             When the printing was finished Butler started, and
        travelling by Basel, to see the Faesch family, and by
        Casale-Monferrato, to see the Avvocato Negri and the
        Coppo family, joined me at Pisa in the middle of May.
             We went down through Rome to Naples whence we
        crossed by sea to Palermo, arriving to find the city in a
        cold, drizzly Scotch mist.        Our friends Miss Bertha
        Thomas and Miss Helen Zimmern were in the hotel and
        Ingroja had come down from Calatafimi to meet us. We
        went to Trapani and up the Mountain, saluting all our
        friends ; then through Castelvetrano back to Palermo
        and on through Catania to Taormina where we found
        William Logsdail, the painter, with his family. We went
        to Aci Reale for a day and saw Mario Puglisi, then to
        Messina and returned by sea to Naples.            All the time
        Butler was fairly well, but on arriving at Naples he com
        plained of feeling ill ; he could not, however, make up
        his mind to alter his plans, and we went straight on
        through Rome and Ancona to Pesaro, where we saw the
        picture by Giovanni Bellini which for years he had talked
        of showing me.
             After dinner at Pesaro, Butler, still feeling unwell,
        said to me :
             " Do you see the lady and gentleman at that table—
        those English people who were looking at the Bellini
        this morning—do you think either of them is a doctor ? "
             1 considered them and, saying I would inquire, went
        and sat down at their table :
             " Please excuse my interrupting you ; my friend,
        Mr. Butler, is not at all well, and we thought if
        one of you happened to be a doctor you might be
        able to      "
             By this time Butler had joined us and we spent a
        most agreeable evening together. They knew all about
        his books, and did him more good with their conversation
        than any doctor could have done with his prescriptions.

n.                        COLLAPSE                              343
Next morning we exchanged cards ; they were Mr. and «9°>
 Mrs. Arthur Strong.                                                 Aet- &s
     The improvement in Butler's health was only
 momentary ; it did not last into the next day, and as we
 continued our journey through Rimini to Bologna he
 became worse and worse, and could hardly do more than
 be put into the train to travel by day and be put into the
 hotel to sleep by night. But he would not alter his plans ;
he even insisted on making the excursion to S. Marino by
carriage. He had meant to go to these places and see
them, and go to them he did ; though it can hardly be
said that he saw them. At Bologna he collapsed on a seat
in the picture gallery and insisted on my going round
alone to see the pictures.
     After Bologna we struggled on through Parma and
Piacenza to Casale-Monferrato, where we stayed several
days. Here he succumbed and agreed to see Dr. Giorcelli,
who could not make out what was the matter with him.
He picked up, however, in a remarkable way—possibly the
cooler air was beneficial—and was almost himself again
during the journey back to London where we arrived on
24th June.
                 Butler to the Avvocato Negri.
                                                  July i$th, 1901.
    Mv dear Cavaliere—I got your kind letter of July 9 on
Friday last, and am extremely sorry to hear of the difficulties that
have arisen in connection with the publication of your work on
Tabachetti. I do not wonder that after so many years of
research you should be " seccato di tante contrarieta "—any
man must be, and I assure you of my cordial sympathy.
    The great thing I fear is that you may be tempted to lay your
MS. on one side through being tired out with so much dis
appointment, and I need not say how great a loss this would be,
not to me only, nor to M. Oger, nor to the shade of that great
genius to whom we are both of us so devoted, but to the history
of medieval art ; for no one can do so much for Tabachetti's
fame as you can, and no one, I am sure, would do that much
so well.
    What do you think of sending me the MS. that I may see
how long it is, and try to get some of our illustrated monthly
papers to publish it as a translation by me of a work by you ?

        344                     ALFRED STREET                                    XL
  1901 Murray, with whom I am on very good terms (he published
        editor,
        always
        my Lifebut
Act. 65 artistic subject.
                  contains
                   of IDr.
                        thinkone
                             Again
                              it would
                           Butler  long,
                                   forthere
                                        me),
                                          be
                                           profusely
                                              publishes
                                               The Portfolio
                                            isworth  trying.
                                                      illustrated
                                                        a monthly
                                                             ; I dopaper
                                                                     review
                                                                     not knowsome
                                                                                the
                                                                         on which
            I am anxious to do the work before I set about anything else,
        for if I begin on something different, I shall get engrossed with it
        and just at present, having finished the book that is to come out in
        October, I am free. Besides, I am getting older, and likely
        enough shall never do the thing at all unless I do it now. What
        do you think of this ?
             I am quite well again now, and none the worse for my little
        attack of malarial fever. Pray let me hear from you soon, and
        believe me with kindest regards to Signora Negri and your sons,
        Always most truly yours,                                    S. Butler.
              The following letter relates to the development of the
        Whitehall property at Shrewsbury.
                       Butler to Messrs. Henry Wade 6f Son.
                                                                  24M July, 1901.
             Dear Sirs,
                                 Whitehall Building Estate.
             I am sorry to be unable to comply with your wishes in either
        of the two matters mentioned in your letter.
             In the first place, I cannot interfere when I have put a matter
        in my agent's hands—all I can do is to tell him of your wish,
        which I will do at once, and leave him to act according to his own
        judgment.
             As regards the second point, I named Bishop Street as
        an allusion to Dr. Butler ; Canon Street as one to my father ;
        Clifford Street because I live in Clifford's Inn ; and Alfred
        Street after my clerk, who has been my faithful servant for
        a great many years, and whom I should not like to disappoint.
        Nevertheless, I went to Messrs. Russell Cooke this morning and
        asked them whether they objected to the change of name, and I
        found they decidedly did object, seeing how long the street has
        been named Alfred Street in their office.
             I am afraid, therefore, that it must remain Alfred Street. Let
        us suppose that it was named after Alfred the Great and thus, in
        a way, is King Street after all.—Believe me, Yours very truly,
                                                                    S. Butler.

xl                 A DOG AND A BASKET                          345
                                Alfred
     Alfred was, almost from the very day he came to me, at once 1901
servant and friend. I began to feel, almost immediately, that I Aet 65
was like a basket that had been entrusted to a dog. I had Alfred
 and myself in view when I used this simile in Erewhon Revisited,
 p. 217. He liked to have some one who appreciated him and
 whom he could run and keep straight. I was so much older that
 to him I was a poor old thing, with one foot in the grave, who
 but for his watchful eye and sustaining hand might tumble into it
 at any moment.
      A bill sent by some East End firm of bill collectors reached
 me making out that I owed 4s. iod. for groceries to some shop
 keeper in Wapping. It was absurd and Alfred said :
     "Do you think, Sir, that I should have been with you all
 these years and allowed you to owe four and tenpence for
 groceries ? "
      Did I want a new hat ? Alfred knew very well that I should
 rub on with the old one unless I was kept up to getting a
 new one.
      " Here, Sir, is a reminder for you ; you must keep it in your
 waistcoat pocket and keep on repeating it to yourself." And the
 reminder was slipped by him into my waistcoat pocket. It ran :
 " I am to buy a new hat, and a new pair of boots."
      On another like occasion I received the following :
     "This is the last notice from Alfred to the effect that
Samuel Butler, Esqr. is to buy himself a new Hat on Wednesday
morning the 8th of November 1893. Failing to do so there will
 be an awful scene on his return to Clifford's Inn.—Alfred."
     Here are others :—
     "You are to work here to-morrow (Tuesday) until 12 o'clock.
Then you are to go to Peele's or Wilkinson's and get your
dinner. Then reach Drury Lane by 5 to 1 (not later). Pit
early door, 2/6. When you are inside, and cannot get a seat in
the middle, go to the left-hand side and you will see better.
Feb. 8. 1892."
     "•March 15, 1893. I have taken a great fancy to the plant
we bought at Peckham on Tuesday and should be very pleased
and gratified if you gave it to me and got yourself a geranium
when next we go down there.—Alfred."
     "Dec. 20, 1894. Please, you are to change your flannels and
socks to-morrow morning.—Alfred."
     In 1895 I spent several mornings in the MS. Room of the
British Museum, rubbing out pencil marks that I had made on
many of Dr. Butler's letters while I was writing my Life of Dr.
Butler. Before giving the letters to the Museum I wanted these

         346                        ALFRED                              xl
 1901 marks rubbed out and, the letters being already in the keeping of
Act. 65 the Museum, though not yet their property, it was arranged that
         Alfred and I should have a quiet corner in the MS. Room and rub
         out marks till we had cleaned up the letters. Alfred and I sat
         side by side and presently I found the following scrap thrust
         under my notice :
             "You cannot rub out half so nice as Alfred can."
             "¦Friday 3.15 p.m.— Dear Sir—Do not forget to give Mr.
         Gogin the things I have put in the arm chair ; if you do there is
         no excuse for you. The brown paper is to wrap up what he
         wants of them.—Alfred."
             "Nov. 13, 1 901 " (to quote the latest)—"My dear Sir —
         You are requested by Alfred to leave off your music composing
         at 8 o'clock sharp, and to go for a walk on the embankment
         (weather permitting).    Please don't forget for there will be no
         excuse for you."
             Here is one to Jones. " Nov. 28/92—Dear Sir—When you
         are booking seats at the theatre for yourself and Mr. Rockstro,
         kindly book one for the Governor as I consider it necessary that
         he should see In Town as it would then give him an idea of what
         kind of music the public have a taste for. Am sorry you have to
        leave Barnard's Inn ; I will keep a look out for chambers for
         you.—With love from yours very truly, Alfred."
             I am prouder of having received and treasured these scraps of
         Alfred's than I am of all my books put together.
             Almost immediately after he had been well established as my
        clerk (hours from 9.30 to 12.45 an<^ from 2 to 5.30) he wanted
        to be married. I was then only giving him 25/- a week and he
        had nothing behind him, so I said that if he married now, he had
        better stay with me till some better place turned up and then
        take it. The lady, finding that Alfred could not marry at once,
        married some one else, and I am not sure that Alfred was
        altogether displeased. We immediately began putting by a fund
        at the Savings Bank and by the time he was 30 he and I between
        us had got it up to £150.        He then broached the subject of
      , marriage again and, there being no reason why he should not
      1 marry, I raised no objection.       He has three very engaging
        children the eldest of whom is now about 8 years old.
             He has been with me just 15 years ; his savings—I believe I
        may say chiefly my doing, except that if I give him the money
        he saves it—are about X230. He has from me (including ^10
        for a holiday of 4 weeks at the seaside for himself and family)
        about ^150 a year, but I know that this will have to be increased
        as the children get bigger. I do not believe- that two men were
        ever thrown together more suited to one another. My place is
        exactly the one for which he is most adapted, and he is absolutely

xl                  SIR WALTER SCOTT                              347
the sort of man I like to have about me. There is in fact "a 1901
semblable coherence between his spirits and mine," than which I Aet. 65
can imagine nothing more enviable or more likely to be enduring.
     Returning for a moment to Alfred — readers of Ertwhon
 Revisited will find him described with his name in full as solicitor
 to the Higgs family. This was done in answer to a complaint
 from Alfred that I had never put him into any of my books :
     " You know, Sir, you have put Mr. Pault in and Mr. Jones
 and Mr. Gogin, and I think you oughTto put me in too."
     So I put him in and I believe he is now quite contented.
      Here is another of Alfred's letters to Butler, who
gave it to Miss Edith Sichel, who gave me a copy of it in
 1911.
                                             Saturday Nov. %olh 1901.
     Please do not forget to trim your Beard this afternoon, so as
 to look nice and prim at Miss Sichel's to-morrow.
     Also don't rub out your accounts, as I can't make the Totals
agree. We Will settle it on Monday (D.V.).—Yours Alfred.
      About the middle of August I went to Sicily alone
 to see the procession of the Personaggi on Monte San
Giuliano. Butler had apparently quite recovered from
his illness in the spring during our return from the south ;
 but, having seen the Personaggi in 1894, he did not care
to undertake the long journey ; he went instead to
Wassen where he stayed quietly sketching and " editing
his remains" — that is arranging and adnotating old
letters and notes. As we were separated there was some
correspondence, and I give extracts from his letters and
postcards from London and Wassen. I had been reading
 Guy Mannering.
                       Butler to H. F. Jones.
     London, 22 Aug.—I read Guy Mannering many times as a
boy and young man, and always liked it, I think, the best of all
of Scott's. I also liked Rob Roy next best, but not many years ago
tried Ivanhoe and could not get on with it.
     London, 29 Aug. 1901 —I am compelled to write a letter
because I want to send you a word of Alfred's coinage which
cannot be written on a postcard. It is this. His youngest child
(3i years old), it seems, is of a most affectionate disposition.
    "Even though I have slapped her for something, she will

         348                        TOUCH AND GO
 1901 come to mc directly, fling her arms round my neck and
Act. 65 upon me."
               I have explained to him that the word is too like another
         word which he vowed he had never heard of and I was obliged
         to show it to him in the dictionary before he would be convinced.
         On seeing it, he agreed with me that he must amplify the word
         " fawn " in future with greater care.
               Wassen, 2 Sept. 1901 —At Basel met a lady and gentleman
         with whom I talked very amicably for an hour but who proved
         to be brother and sister to Ray Lankester. I laughed and said I
        was very sorry but could have no truck with their brother.
        They told me that Mrs. Arthur Strong, whom we met at Pesaro,
        was Miss Eugenie Sellers whose name we have heard. I got
        Vol. III. of Tennyson's Life1 at Calais. Quite as delightful as
        the preceding vols. Throws even Guy Alannering into the
        shade. ... I gather that you were not disappointed with the
        Personaggi. I hope not. As for Demodocus, he is indeed
        wonderful—quite independently of his being Demodocus. I hope
        you heard him sing the lovely 4 verses which I have preserved.2
               Wassen, 6 Sept. 1901 —The hotel was quite full on Sunday
        but all have gone except an Italian novelist, Verga, and a countess
        who requires explanation, but would be a very nice person if she
        did not sing and was not a goose.
              Wassen, 15 Sept. 1901 —There have been two Aunt-Alice-
        Harrie-and-May old ladies here, one of them said to me that she
        supposed Signor Verga and the countess were husband and wife.
        I said :                                                         ~"
              "Oh yes, certainly — I mean husband and somebody else's
        wife."
              I said it with so much propriety as to escape giving offence,
        but it was touch and go.
              If you see Avvocato Negri tell him that I am afraid I have
       bored him about his work on Tabachetti. Give my best love to
       dear Cesare and all sorts of kind things to all the others.
              By this time I was at Casale on my way back from
       Sicily. The story about the husband and wife illustrates
       something I have often noticed in the writing both of
       Butler and of Miss Savage, whether one caught it from
       the other or not I cannot say. It is something in the
       treatment, not in the subject. Had any one else treated
       the story he might have ended it with the word " offence,"
            1 In the Tauchnitz edition.
           * This wa« the blind singer on Mount Eryx, whom he heard in 1893 (ante, pp.
       1 ;o, 160) and whom I had told him 1 heard there.

  *l            "SELFISH AND EGOISTIC"                          349
  if not with "somebody else's wife," and it might have «9°'
  passed as just worth telling. By adding the six last et' 5
  words, " But it was touch and go," Butler impresses his
  own personality upon it ; he throws back over it a light
  that re-animates an expiring joke. We see him with the
  idea coming into his head ; he wonders whether he can
 possibly put it like that to the two old ladies ; he battles
  with the temptation, as Mrs. Wadman battled with the
 Captain Shandy
 temptation          washer
                to lay       finger :upon the very place where
                          wounded                                   /
      " I cannot say it. What would they think of me if
 I said it ? I wish I could say it. There can be no harm
 in saying it. I will say it."
      And then he makes the plunge and succeeds in giving
 no offence—at least he says he succeeded, but we have
 only his word for it ; one would like to hear the old
 ladies' account, just as he wanted to hear what the gazelles
 had to say about the young lady's statement in Moore's
 poem that when they came to know her well they loved
 her.
                       Butler to H. F. Jones.
     Wassen, 18 Sept. 1901 —I have brought on my drawings
 considerably by snatches but have had no comfortable steady light
 at all, and it is quite cold. I have got on with Miss Savage's
 and my correspondence—being now just half way through. I
am shocked to see how badly I treated her, always thinking and
 writing about myself and never about her. If I have been as
selfish and egoistic to you as I was to her, it will explain a good
deal. I must endeavour, late as it is, to mend my ways.
      If Miss Savage had lived to- write Butler's life—and
 how I wish she had! —she could hot have passed this
 without a protest. Nor can I. To me he was the dearest,
 kindest, most considerate friend that any man ever had.
He was never selfish or egoistic, nor was there ever
anything that required explanation. If any one was selfish
just at this time it was I for going off to Sicily to satisfy
my curiosity about the procession on Mount Eryx and
leaving him alone at Wassen to make stepping-stones of his
dead selves and " jump upon them to some tune "—a kind

        350                          REMORSE                        n.
  <y-i of idf-torturt in which be was or.iy too zpt to indulge.
AeT~ i' It was wh-i;: be was at Wassen, editing and destroying
        old letters, brooding over the past, alone, depressed and
        out of health, that he made on his ojrresponder.ee some of
        those notes reproaching himself for his ill-treatment of
        Miss Savage which are reproduced at their proper places.
        He also tried to express his remorse in these sonnets.
               She was too kind, wooed too ptrriuendy.
               Wrote moving letters to me day dt day ;
               The more »he wrote, the more unmoved was I,
               The more the gare, the let* could I repay.
               Therefore I grieve not that I was not lored
               Bat that, being lored, I could not love again.
               I liked ; but like and lore are far removed ;
               Hard though I tried to love I tried in rain.
               For the was plain and lame and fat and short,
               Forty and over-kind. Hence it befell
              That, though I loved heT in a certain sort,
               Yet did I love too wisely but not well.
                     Ah ! had the been more beauteous or less kind
                     She might have found me of another mind.
                                           U
              And now, though twenty years are come and gone,
              That little lame lady's face is with me still ;
              Never a day but what, on every one,
              She dwells with me as dwell she ever will.
              She said she wished I knew not wrong from right ;
              It was not that ; I knew, and would have chosen
              Wrong if I could, but, in my own despite,
              Power to choose wrong in my chilled veins was frozen.
              Tis said that if a woman woo, no man
              Should leave her till she have prevailed ; and, true,
              A man will yield for pity if he can,
              But if the flesh rebels what can he do ?
                    I could not ; hence I grieve my whole life long
                   The wrong I did in that I did no wrong.
           I do not remember now whether the first of these
       sonnets was actually written at Wassen, but it was a by
       product of the melancholy occupation which he called
       " editing his remains." It appeared in The New Quarterly
       of June 1908, among "Extracts from the Note-Books of

 xl                 RIGHT AND WRONG                            351
 Samuel Butler." I was at once sorry 1 had published it 1901
 and did not publish the second, nor did I say anything Aet- 6*
 about either of them in The Note-Books of Samuel Butler
 (19 1 2), because it seemed to me a mistake to make them
 public without giving more information about Miss
 Savage than could be given either in the review or in the
 Note-Books.
     The second of the sonnets was certainly written at
 Wassen. He sent it to me from there in a letter, 13th
 September 1901, and after his death I found in a sketch
 book : he had with him there another copy of it opening
 thus
           Sincenow,
           And       though
                 I beheld her,twenty
                                I behold
                                      years   still.
                                         herare  come and gone
     In the first of these sonnets Butler speaks of Miss
 Savage as being 40, and in the second he quotes her as
 saying she wished he knew not wrong from right. Miss
 Savage was 40 when, in the letter to Butler dated " About
 7 April 1876," she wrote : "I wish you did not know
 right from wrong." In commenting upon this (ante,
 I. p. 237), I said I supposed her to be alluding to his
 scrupulousness in matters of business. I suppose so still,
 and I think that Butler was mistaken in the construction
 which, in the sonnet, he appears to put upon her words.
 Unfortunately he destroyed the rest of her letter and only
 kept a copy of extracts, so that to us, who do not know
 what the context was, her words may appear ambiguous ;
 but if the context supported his construction, it was unlike
 any passage in all her undestroyed correspondence.
     In a note, quoted ante, I. p. 443, after declaring that he
never was and never pretended to be in love with her, he
wrote : " I valued her, but she perfectly understood that
I could do no more. I can never think of her without
pain." From this we may conclude that he did not
seriously believe she intended the words in the sense he
appears to give them. He had just shown, in Erewhon
Revisited, that although the ascent of Mr. Higgs was not
miraculous, nevertheless the assumption that it was gave it
strength to support a religion ; so here, with the poet's
ability to see a thing in two senses at once, he assumed a

         352                    CESARE'S WINE                                 xl
 1901 meaning for her words in which he did not believe, and
         that
         in
         thus
            verse
               he
Aet" 6j intended
               gave
                  was
                   fhU
                    that,
                       taking
                         passionate
                      them mystrength
                               God,
                                advantage
                                      cry
                                       to of
                                     what  of
                                          support
                                           a penitence
                                             brute
                                              their ambiguity
                                                    aI was
                                                       poem.
                                                         : "! "If to   develop
                                                                         really
                                                                   Ishesuppose
              In the sketch-book where I found the second sonnet I
        found also a third, incomplete, and several fragments
        intended either for a fourth sonnet or to be used in alter
        ing and completing the third.             These verses are toe
        unfinished for publication. It was in this sketch-book that
        I also found the beautiful line already quoted :
                     Death bound me to her when he set me free.
            Butler was back in Clifford's Inn by the end of
        September and I followed, bringing Remi Faesch, who
        came from Basel to London to learn English, as his
        brother had done.
                              Butler to Cesare Coppo.
                                                                 Oct. 5 1901.
            My dear good kind Cesare—Thank you very much for
       your nice letter of Oct. 1 from which I am glad to learn that you
       are all well. Oh yes ! Jones came back on the evening of the
        1st and told me he had enjoyed his visit to Casale very much, and
       that he had had a delightful day with you at Crea—but I feel
       sure that he had drunk more of your good wine than was good for
       him ! Four bottles to take to Crea ! But as you know I am a
       poor hand at wine. Only yours is so very good that when one
       begins one cannot stop.
            I am extremely sorry to hear that, in spite of the " cannoni,"
       the hail did so much damage. At any rate I should think that
       you will hear no more of that absurdity.
            Here the weather is broken and to-day it is quite cold and a
       fire is very pleasant. My new book is to come out on Wednesday,
       and I am very anxious to see how it is received. As regards my
       health, I am very fairly well, but I doubt whether I have ever
       quite shaken off the attack I got in the spring. When I was at
       Wassen I had a return of it, and at one time, was in half a mind
       to run over to Casale and show myself to Cavaliere Giorcelli, but
       I got better again—though I am still not quite as I should be.
            Angelo has sent postcards to both Alfred and myself, but
       there is no address on them. Please when you write thank him
       both for me and Alfred and send him our kindest regards. I am
       very glad to hear that he is in a good situation.

 xl          THE RETURN TO EREWHON                              353
     Both Alfred's little girls are in the fever hospital, but they 1901
are going on well. With all kindest good wishes to your dear Aet- 65
 mother, father, Angiolina, and best love to yourself— Believe me
always very affectionately yours,                      S. Butler.
     The " cannoni " were cannon which they fired into the
sky in the hope that the explosion would disperse the
gathering hail-storms. Cavaliere Giorcelli was the doctor
whom we used to meet at the Avvocato Negri's house ;
he brought both Cesare and Angelo into the world. I
do not think that Butler's illness, which returned at
Wassen, was really malaria; he speaks of it so because
one of the doctors had called it malaria. It is more
likely he was already suffering from the pernicious
anaemia which, according to the certificate, was one of
the causes of his death in the following year.
     On nth October 1901 we received the first copy of
Erewhon Revisited twenty years later; both by the original
discoverer of the country and by his son, and also the first
copy of the new edition of Erewhon. Into the latter he
introduced about fifty additional pages, enough to start
a fresh copyright in the book as revised.
     The motto on the half-title of Erewhon Revisited is a
passage in Greek from the Iliad, ix. 312, 313, with this
translation—
           Him do I hate even as I hate Hell fire
           Who says one thing, and hides another in his heart.
     He wrote this book more easily than any other of his
books, possibly because the idea had been in his mind for
so many years ; some of his notes for it are given in the
Note-Books, but I cannot tell at what date he first con
templated it because he sometimes added the titles to his
notes when copying them out at a date later than that of
their composition. But he did not look through his
Note-Books for material ; he wrote the book straight off.
                       Erewhon Revisited
    Jones says 1 am to make a note of the fact that many things,
such as the clothes having been put upon a dummy ; the two
buttons given to Yram ; the fact that the hero had announced
     VOL. II                                                2 A

         354                  REAL INCIDENTS                            «x
 1991 himself as about to interriew die air god ; and many other like
A**- *5 incidents teem ilrarjuz to hare bern put into Errxhtm as prepara
        tion for its Sitccfor. It was no: so. I had no intention of
        writing a successor to Eretchtm tor many a rear after it had been
        p-jbi.'i.^ed. Nor cid I read Ereu.ks* through in order to see what
        I co-jid make use of; I took whatever suggested itself at the
        moment as gving me an opportunity for helping the new book
        to catch on to the old one.
              Another curious thing about the growth of Erewhon
        Revisited is that all the time he was writing it he intended
        the visit of Mr. Higgs to Erewhon to be prologue, and
        the book was to be the visit of his son John. This
        appears from his letter to Dean Pigou (ante, pp. 330-1).
        As it turned out, the visit of the father is the book and
        John's visit is epilogue.
              In writing Erewhon Revisited Butler remembered that
        he was " an unimaginative person," and, as with The Way
        of all Fleshy preferred to take incidents from real life
        instead of inventing new ones.
                                 Havky's Sermoh
            I forget whether I have said that all the part of Hanky's
        sermon dealing with the Sunchild evidences is taken almost word
        for word from a letter in The Times that appeared Dec 8, 1892
       and was written by Sir G. Gabriel Stokes and Lord Halsbury,
       asking for money on behalf of the Christian Evidence Society.
             We have seen from his letter to Mr. Robert Bridges,
        of 6th February 1 900, that a friend actually saw Erewhon
        on a second-hand book-stall labelled " 6d., very readable."
        This friend was Thomas Greg, who occupied rooms under
        Butler at 15 Clifford's Inn. He bought the book and
       showed it to Butler, label and all. The idea of making
        Mr. Higgs a pavement artist was derived from the tenant
       of one of his small houses at Peckham, who followed that
       profession, and had the unusual name of Stocquelar. He
       had often looked at the work of these people and com
       pared it in his mind with the votive pictures in Italian
       churches ; in the days of his poverty he had wondered, in
       an Anch'io sono pittore frame of mind, whether, as he
       could make nothing out of his expensive University educa

xl             THE PAVEMENT ARTIST                           355
tion, he might be able to make a living in this way. It 1901
interested him to know that one of his own tenants actually Aet- 6$
was finding the money for his rent out of the proceeds of
these pavement pictures.
     I never saw Stocquelar, but after Butler's death Mr.
Tanner, who used to collect his rents, told me about him.
He wore long hair and a Scotch cap, and had had some
artistic training—enough for him to turn one of the rooms
in his house into a studio where he had pictures painted
by himself, landscapes of Dulwich and the neighbourhood,
and portraits, including a portrait of his wife. He and
his wife, having no children, advertised that they wished
to adopt a boy, and, after some preliminaries, a boy was
sent and was brought up by them. From the fact that
the child arrived in a brougham the neighbours assumed
that he must be of noble birth. Stocquelar died suddenly
on his pitch in Rye Lane.
     In chapter vii. of Erewhon Revisited Mr. Higgs sees
outside a tailor's shop, in the main street of Sunch'ston,
"a flaring advertisement which can only be translated,
• Try our Dedication trousers, price ten shillings and six
pence.' " This was because in 1872, at the time of the
Thanksgiving Service in St. Paul's for the recovery of the
Prince of Wales, Butler had seen, outside a tailor's shop
on Ludgate Hill, an advertisement identical in every
respect except that the word " Thanksgiving " appeared
instead of " Dedication."
    Three pages further on he writes of Mr. Higgs, " the
giddiness which had for some seconds compelled him to
lay hold of the first thing he could catch at in order to
avoid falling "—this is a reminiscence of his own giddi
ness which compelled him to lay hold of the railings and
to get the Staple Inn watchman to accompany him as he
went down from my rooms to his own, in 1895.
             Butler to Mr. H. Heathcote Statham.
    14 Oct. 1901 —It is very kind of you to have written as you
have done, and I am much gratified that you appear to be satisfied
with Erewhon Revisited. As for the Hanky's and Panky's, the

        356                              "Q'                             XL
 ,9oi more dissatisfied they are, and the more they show their dis-
Aet. 65 satisfaction, the better I shall be pleased, for I think that they
        will understand the satire.
            I believe it to be high time that some such book was written,
        and that the present moment is, to use the slang of the day, a
        " psychological " one (why not simply " opportune " ?) for its
        appearance. I am especially glad that you like page 280 ; this,
        and the similar pp. 289, 290, are the conclusion of the whole
        matter so far as I am concerned. I also like President Gurgoyle's
        pamphlet in chapter xi.
            If The Guardian notices the book, for it has a habit of
        passing me over in silence, and never reviewed either my Life uf
        Dr. Butler of Shrewsbury, afterwards Bishop of Lichfield, or my
        Authoress of the Odyssey, I will send you the review and you will,
        as you say, return it ; in the meantime I rather gather that you
        have not seen the reviews of Erewhon Revisited in The Times and
        Daily Chronicle, so I send them and will ask you to return them.
        They both appeared on the day the book was published. The
         Times is the best.
            As for Narcissus, we dare not go to the great expense of
        getting it performed. Our best chance lies in my becoming
        better known as a writer. I have since completed my half of a
        serious secular oratorio, Ulysses, in which—except in the choruses
        which are as Handelian as it was in my power to make them,
        one of them being on a ground bass— I have recognised the
        existence, under protest, of Mozart and Beethoven, though
        keeping mainly to Handelian modes of expression and mental
        attitude. Both my friend Jones and I should regard any poking
        fun at Handel as a mauvaise plaisanterie of the most odious kind.
        We adore him.
             The reviews of Erewhon Revisited were in the main
        favourable ; among them was one by Mr. (now Sir)
        Arthur Quiller-Couch in The Daily News, about which
        Butler wrote to the editor.
            31 October 1901 —After the very handsome way in which
        you have treated me, I am ashamed of appearing to express any
        kind of dissatisfaction, but shall nevertheless be glad if you will
        allow me to make the following explanation :
            Speaking of Erewhon Revisited, Mr. Quiller-Couch says :
            " But when it comes to inventing for an Erewhonian woman
        named Yram (which is 'Mary' reversed) and her husband a
        situation which at once calls up, and scandalously, the nuptials of
        Christ's Mother with Joseph, then I must submit that he is either
        offensive bv inadvertence almost incredible or—" etc.

xl                  FATHER AND SON                            357
    If I have been offensive in the manner above alleged, it is 1901
assuredly by inadvertence, for the idea of parallelism between the Aet. 65
nuptials of Mr. Strong and Yram, and those of the Mother of
Christ and Joseph never crossed my mind. I do not see the
parallelism even now, for to make it at all close Higgs ought to
be the son of Yram ; nor has any one of the other fifteen
reviewers who so far have reviewed Erewhon Revisited shewn
any signs of detecting either advertence or inadvertence in this
connection. I am none the less shocked that a single reviewer
should have done so.
    The name Yram was fixed, quite guilelessly, some thirty
years ago, and could not be changed. That she should have had
a son by Higgs was an after-thought not contemplated till I
began to write Erewhon Revisited and saw how useful an ally a
son would be to him. Moreover, this after-thought gave occasion
for the second leading idea of the book, which so far no reviewer
has noticed. I mean the story of a father trying to win the love
of a hitherto unknown son, by risking his life in order to show
himself worthy of it—and succeeding. The marriage of Strong
and Yram was dictated by my inability to see any other way of
saving Yram and of putting her son in a position to help his
father.
     Mr. Quiller-Couch replied privately to Butler apologis
ing for the injustice he had done him, and offering to own
the mistake in The Daily News, but Butler begged him to
dismiss the subject from his mind.
     A few days later Butler wrote to Mrs. Fuller Maitland :
" I send by to-morrow's post a copy of my wicked book,"
and added a postscript calling her attention to the second
leading idea, in words almost identical with those in the
foregoing letter.
                    Coffee at Wilderhope
    I am in disgrace at Wilderhope just now. I went there on
the 8th of last month, and in the evening unfortunately took up
the Life of Archbishop Benson, with which I was immediately
fascinated, much as I had been with the present Lord Tennyson s
Life of Tennyson. . . . However let this be. I was devouring
the Life of Archbishop Benson, and made no secret of the amuse
ment it afforded me. This gave great offence.
    " But I assure you, Sam, the book has been very highly
spoken of. Quite a number of people, really good people who
know when a book is good as well as anybody, have enjoyed it
extremely."

        358              "YOUNG MR. BENSON"                                xl
 i9oi        " I assure you, my dear Harrie, they cannot have enjoyed it
Act. 65 more heartily than I am doing."
             On this there was a severely abrupt change in the conversation.
        Next morning at breakfast there was no tea. It was a year since
        I had stayed with them, and I concluded they had forgotten that
        I always took tea, not coffee, when staying with them. But this
        was not so.
             May said, " Oh, Sam, I think you like tea for breakfast, do
        you not ? We can have some made in a moment."
             I assured her that I like coffee very much, which I do ; it is
        not coffee, but Wilderhope coffee, that I do not like. I was not
        going, however, to explain this, and declared that when I was
        abroad I always took coffee for breakfast, which is quite true.
        But I could see I was in disgrace.
             In the course of the morning I went up into the town to
        look at the papers, and found to my surprise the excellent review
        of Erewhon and Erewhon Revisited in The Times, Oct. 9 (on
        which day the books were published), and also the hardly less
        excellent review in The Daily Chronicle. I knew that I ought
        not to say anything about these reviews to my sisters, but there
        are few so holy as to be able at all times to resist the temptation
         to rub a success in, although it be known that it will irritate.
        So I showed them to my sisters. Harrie made some short slight
        remark indicating disapproval. May said not a word. They
         will probably have their revenge when the books are reviewed by
        the Spectator and Guardian.
             In the evening I again took up the Life of Archbishop Benson
        and came upon the passage on p. 122 of the abridged edition
        (Macmillan, 1901) wherein the writer describes his meeting with
         Mr. Gladstone. It runs : " 14 July, 1871. Last Sunday I had
         a singular and interesting change. I went to Windsor to preach
         to the Queen, and saw something of, and much admired, Mr.
         Gladstone. His eyes alone afford sufficient reason for his being
         Prime Minister."
             At this I tittered, and read the passage aloud. "It must
        have been his nose," said I. "The bishop must have written
        * nose ' and young Mr. Benson changed it into ' eyes.' "
             Harrie fired up and desired me not to read anything more to
        her. On the following morning the Life ofArchbishop Benson had
        disappeared.
             Harrie was very cross at breakfast.
             " You still continue to like coffee ? " said she ; " we can have
        tea made for you if you like."
             I still continued to like coffee. But when it proved that
         there was not enough to give me a second cup, I was firm, and
        she had to send for more. May was breakfasting in bed, so

 xl          LAUGHING AT MRS. BRIDGES                           359
 it rested with Harrie who ate up all the four little pieces of toast 1901
 without offering me a single one. The next day I was leaving, Act. 65
 and I think it was felt that I had been sufficiently punished, for
 she insisted on my having two of the usual four pieces of toast.
     What a beast I am for laughing at her ! But I cannot help it j
 it was too comic. [Nov. 1901.]
      Near the opening of the foregoing note the reader
 may have observed some dots ; they were substituted by
me for a passage consisting of critical remarks upon the
biographies of Tennyson and Archbishop Benson — a
passage which I omitted in deference to one for whose
opinion on a question of literary taste I have the highest
regard. I did not understand his opinion to extend to
what Butler says later about Mr. Gladstone's eyes ;
nevertheless I will here depart from my usual practice of
leaving the reader to settle for himself when Butler is
serious and when he is jesting, and state clearly that in
this case he is jesting. He was burlesquing the com
mentators of the Odyssey and the Sonnets, and throwing
out a conjectural emendation which he would not have
supported seriously if challenged. In printing it I intend
no disrespect either to the memory of Mr. Gladstone or to
that of the Archbishop or to the Master of Magdalene.
Nor did Butler aim his remark at them or at any one of
them. It was all part of that laughing at Mrs. Bridges for
which the conclusion of the note is an apology.

                              CHAPTER XLI
                                   1902—Part I
                           EDITING HIS REMAINS
 §90* On our return from Boulogne, where we had been, as
Aet. 66 usual, for Christmas, I went to Hampstead to stay for a
        few days with my sister Lilian in her flat at Downshire
        Hill, and developed pneumonia. My sister nursed me,
        and I did not return to Staple Inn till 10th March.
        During my illness Butler came to see me frequently, and
        when he could not come he wrote. It was a long journey
        from Clifford's Inn to Hampstead, the weather was cold
        and he was ill, though we did not realise till afterwards
        how ill he was ; consequently he wrote a great many
        letters—some were addressed to my sister and some to
        me, but they were all written with the intention of enter
        taining me. " Mrs. Gallup's cipher," in the first extract,
        is a reference to the Shakespeare-Bacon controversy.
                           Butler to Miss L. 1. Jones.
             6 Jan. 1902 —I am keeping for him a copy of this day's Timet
        with facsimiles of some of the italic writing from which Mrs.
        Gallup's cipher is derived, and an exhaustive explanatory article
        therewith.
             My sonnet is in this week's Athenaeum. Gogin has written—
        all well—so has [Lionel] Smythe. It seems we don't understand
        the humour of Old Mortality. He says : " It should be read
        slowly with much imaginary north country accent, thus what he
        [H. F. J.] takes for dullness will be seen to be humour, Scottish,
        and possibly a joke at the reader's expense. The verbosity is of
        his period and far and away better than Bulwer Lytton whom he
                                         360

xu            THE LIFE AFTER DEATH                               361
[H. F. J.] admires." I would not tell Jones this till he is pretty far 190a
advanced towards recovery. As for his admiring Bulwer Lytton Aet- 6*
I must hear it from his own lips before I believe it.
     This is the sonnet mentioned in the foregoing letter.
It appeared anonymously in The Athenaeum, and is given in
The Note-Books of Samuel Butler (19 12).
                            MtAA.ovra ravra
                                                                            /
          Not on sad Stygian shore, nor in clear sheen
          Of far Elysian plain, shall we meet those                    /
          Among the dead whose pupils we have been,
          Nor those great shades whom we have held as foes ;      /
          No meadow of asphodel our feet shall tread,
          Nor shall we look each other in the face
          To love or hate each other being dead,
          Hoping some praise, or fearing some disgrace.
          We shall not argue saying " 'Twas thus " or " Thus,"
          Our argument's whole drift we shall forget ;
          Who's right, who's wrong, 'twill be all one to us ;
          We shall not even know that we have met.
               Yet meet we shall, and part, and meet again
               Where dead men meet, on lips of living men.
                    Butler to Miss L. I. Jones.
     7 Jan. 1902 —A man has written to The Athenaeum that he
wishes the right hand of the man who wrote my sonnet had been
paralysed before he wrote it ! But he likes the two last lines.
            Butler to the Editor of The Press, N.Z.
    January jth 1902—Your very kind letter of November 18th
and copies both of the Jubilee Weekly and the daily Press reached
me a few days ago, but an influx of foreign visitors on whom I
have to attend and the dangerous illness of my friend, Mr.
H. F. Jones (who is now on the mend) have prevented me from
thanking you until now.
    The Weekly Press is really an astonishing performance as well
as a most interesting one—I need hardly say that I shall value it
very highly. The illustration which affects me personally most
is the one of Dr. Sinclair's grave which is on my own run (that
was). I was away down at Christchurch when poor Dr. Sinclair,
who was staying at my station, was drowned, and never heard of
what had happened till I actually reached home and found that
the body had been already buried — with a service, I blush to say,
read from my bullock-driver's Mass-Book by Dr. Haast, as he

        362      THE TOPOGRAPHY OF EREWHON                                xu
 190* then was, no Church of England Prayer Book being found on the
Aet. 66 statjon> Possibly I had taken mine with me for use at Christ-
         church, but at this distance of time—nearly forty years—who
        can say ?
             I am glad also to possess photographs of my old friend, Mr.
        William Sefton Moorhouse, who dwells ever in my memory as
        one of the very finest men whose path I ever crossed, but who
        also haunts me bitterly as one of the very few men—at least I
        trust it may be so—who treated me with far greater kindness
        than I did him. His memory is daily with me, notwithstanding
        all these years, and ever will be, as long as I can remember any
        thing. But, alas ! it is as that of one who showed nothing but
        extreme kindness and goodwill to me and who did not receive
        from me the measure which he had meted out. Not that I ever
        failed in admiration and genuine affection but (it is true, under
        great stress) I did not consider things which a larger knowledge
        of the world has shown me I ought assuredly to have considered.1
        Enough ! He dwells ever with me as, perhaps, the greatest man
        all round that I have ever known. I was also very glad to have
        the photo of my old and valued friend J. Colborne Veel whose
        inimitable articles on " Public Gardens " (I need not say, a parody
        on the Canterbury Standard), " Kaiapoi Address," and " Shall Mr.
        Ollivier have a Statue i " are often read by me to friends with never
        failing appreciation on their part and delight on mine.
             I thank you for your most kind and too flattering article on
        the announcement of my Erewhon Revisited. I immediately sent
        it to Mr. Grant Richards and asked him to send you copies.
        You will see reminiscences of my own first crossing the hills
        above Lyttelton and riding across the plains in chapter xxvii.,
        but I have deliberately altered a good deal, for I had to make the
        writer get up the Rakaia Gorge, whereas I have really taken him
        to the Rangitata.
            I suppose I am probably the la6t survivor of those who rode
        on the trial trip of the first locomotive that ever travelled in New
        Zealand. Moorhouse, Reeves, myself and one other (but of this
        I am not certain) were the only ones on the engine as it started
        from Christchurch and ran to the Heathcote.
            As an after-thought, I may express my gratitude to the writer
       of the Odyssey for not having taken anything like the same
       liberties with the neighbourhood of Trapani that I have taken,
       both in Erewhon and Erewhon Revisited, with the topography of
       Canterbury. Had she done otherwise, I doubt whether I should
       have ever felt so confident of having hounded her down and
        brought her back to her own people as I now fearlessly am.
                                1 Cf. ante, I. pp. 169, 170.

xu              BUTLER'S PRAYER BOOK                         363
    Strange—the way in which Baker and I discovered the pass to 1902
the West Coast over the head waters of the Rakaia is drawn Aet. 66
closely from fact. We went up the Rangitata and actually over
looked the pass over the Rakaia ranges that was exactly opposite
us and which we should not otherwise have found. Alas ! that
our having found it should have cost poor Whitcombe his life.
     The foregoing letter was published in the Jubilee
number of The Press (N.Z.) on 25th May 191 1. Dr.
Gerald Harper sent me a copy in time for me to read
the letter at the Fourth Erewhon dinner in July. When
I came to the part about the Prayer Book the guests
laughed, and, I believe, thought that his saying that
possibly he had taken his to Christchurch was a polite
fiction. But I believe it was the fact. It was on 14th
August 1862 (ante, I. p. 98) that he wrote to Marriott :
" As for going to church I have left it off this twelve
month and more." Dr. Sinclair was drowned in 1861,
and Butler might easily have been at church in Christchurch
at the time with his Prayer Book. Perhaps he also took
with him the Bible given to him by " his affectionate
Godmother and Aunt Anna Worsley," the prototype of
the one which Ernest Pontifex kicked into a corner before
going to call upon Miss Maitland in chapter Ix. of The Way
of all Flesh. In any case it is satisfactory to know that
some one on the run had a book of services of some kind,
otherwise Dr. Sinclair's funeral might have had to be
conducted with, if not a chapter from Tristram Shandy,
perhaps one from The Origin of Species.
                    Butler to Miss L. I. Jones.
    9 fan. 1902— I have edited several of your brother's 1883
letters from Venice, Padua, and Verona ; if he has any of mine,
and if they contain as much treasonable matter as his to me, I
trust he will allow me, when he gets better, to edit them by
writing over those parts that give my true opinion concerning
those most near and dear to me as follows :
          Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven first-born 1
          Or of the Eternal coeternal beam
          May I express thee unblamed ? Since God is light,
          And never but in unapprpached light
          Dwelt from eternity, etc.—

         364                 APPLYING MILTON                            XI 1
 1902 lines which, I take it, no one will credit me with knowing
Aet. 66 and which I assuredly should not know if I had not had to write
         them and the next 45^ lines of the third book of Paradise Lost
         many a hundred times over when I was a boy at school. They
        are the most abiding of all the lines that I ever learned at
        Shrewsbury—[here follows a line cancelled by writing a line of
        Milton over it] cancelling ... as per line cancelled.
             Read that, Mrs. Gallup, if you can !
              He was editing his correspondence, and sent some of
        Miss Savage's letters to be read to me. Of my letters
        he said : " Treated with a moderate application of ' Hail,
        holy Light ' they are quite safe ; in all cases of doubt I
        apply the Milton."
                            Butler to Miss L. I. Jones.
             16 Jan. 1902—I am editing the very painful years in my
        correspondence, 1 883-1 886. I am at the point when I was sent
        for post-haste to Shrewsbury to a supposed perfectly hopeless
        illness of my father who recovered and lived three years longer.
        I see I wrote to Miss Savage that it was Orpheus and Eurydice
       only the other way about.
             She wrote back : " Your father will be sure to take great
        care of himself ; bronchitis patients always do take care of them
        selves —I have told you so before. It is a most interesting
        occupation — more satisfying even than a hobby for collecting
        things—always to be taking thought for oneself and looking at
        the weathercock and thermometer. If I had plenty of money
       there is nothing I should like better than to be a bronchitis
        patient."
             I fear that being a pneumonia patient will not be found quite
       such a delightful occupation by your poor brother.
                            Butler to Miss L. J. Jones.
            20 Jan. 1902—I have been to the Old Masters. There are
       a few good things, especially a very fine and well preserved Jan
        Steen "Grace before Meat," which I hope your brother will be
       able to see, and a large, important, and certainly genuine work
        by Raffaelle, which I hope will do his reputation the harm that it
        ought to do.
             That odious paper Literature is dead ; I am delighted. It
        is now amalgamated with The Academy, which appears as The
        Academy and Literature.

XLI                          PAYING CALLS                                         365
     The Times has taken to publishing a Weekly Literary 1902
Supplement on a separate sheet or sheets of a size different from Aet- 66
chat of the rest of the paper. This contained last Saturday an
article (I should think by Miss M. E. Coleridge) on Aldis
Wright's last volume of FitzGerald's Letters. The extracts given
do not strike me as quite to my taste ; but I am getting the
book from Mudie's, for I want to make up my mind about
FitzGerald more definitely than I have yet been able to do.
     I went to Mrs. X's yesterday afternoon. X and the man
who married the daughter were there. Mrs. X was most
affectionate. She said my hands were cold, which they were.
She placed them on the sofa by her side, without, I need hardly
say, detaching them from the rest of my body, and laid her own
beautiful paws upon the top of them, saying that she should keep
them there till mine were warrn. I said that that would be
delightful ; but I writhed inwardly ; happily, she did not carry
out her threat to the bitter end. There were lots of enquiries
about your brother, and I was to convey all sympathy, etc.
     The son-in-law is a very nice man, about 45, plain, quite
bald, but acute, sympathetic, and without any kind of side. He
was most attentive and friendly to me, and this, as your brother
will readily believe, inclined me to think highly of him. His
wife has just presented him with a little boy.
     Who should come in while I was there but Mr. and Mrs. Z,
who said they thought I had dropped them altogether, etc., etc.
This comes of calling on anybody at all. I was very angry but
I was caught, and I suppose shall have to call there next Sunday.
Then Mrs. X brought out my photo, and they admired it so
much that I was each moment in alarm lest I should have to
spend 2/9 in giving them one. Happily they did not ask for a
copy, and I breathed freely when the conversation flowed into
another channel. Of course they were properly sympathetic
about your brother.
     I forgot to tell your brother that Waddington, who was to
have come on Friday, did not turn up, and has not written. I
sent a p.c. last night to enquire.
     Alfred this afternoon began to show signs of wobbling about
Rudyard Kipling. He asked me what an "oaf" was. "It is
an abbreviation,' said I dogmatically, " for loafer." I knew that
this would be plausible enough to catch him, and also that he
would be indignant with Kipling for calling football-players
loafers.1 I believe I have done for Kipling's high estate with
Alfred much as I did with my tobacconist years ago in respect
of Gladstone's reputation as a financier, and about as truthfully
    1 This is an allusion to Kipling's poem "The Islanders" in The F'rvt Nations.

        366                  READINGS IN CRABBE
  1902 [cf. The Note-Books of Samuel Butler, p. 165]. I fear I have a
Aet. 66 good deal of my younger sister in me. I see I wrote to Miss
        Savage in 1884: "My sister May has been sending for my
        nephew from Liverpool and has been telling him some truths ;
        this seems to have made her ill for some days. If she really has
        been telling the truth to anyone I wonder that it did not kill
        her outright. She seems all right now, so I suppose she has got
        back to lying again." Milton, please.
            As for poor dear Miss Savage, she has only a very few months
        to live, and I can see now that she is forcing herself to a light
        headedness which she does not feel.
            Alfred sends his best respects to you, and his love to your
        brother, about whom I am very unhappy. No doubt I shall
        have a p.c. to-morrow to say what Sir Douglas Powell's opinion
        is. I trust that no operation will be necessary, and that he will
        make us all comfortable about the rise in temperature, but I
        confess to being very much afraid that tapping may be necessary.
        Please to give him my best love.
             In reading FitzGerald's Letters Butler hit upon some
        praise of Crabbe ; it was probably this passage : 1
            I wish some American Publisher would publish my Edition
        of Tales of the Hall, edited by means of Scissors and Paste, with
        a few words of plain Prose to bridge over whole tracts of bad
        Verse ; not meaning to improve the original, but to seduce hasty
        Readers to study it.
             This occurs in a letter to Professor C. E. Norton of
        22nd December 1876 ; and in 1879 FitzGerald's Readings
        in Crabbe was issued. Butler knew nothing about Crabbe,
        so I sent him this passage from a note to the preface to
        the imitation of Crabbe in Rejected Addresses :
            It is not a little extraordinary that Crabbe, who could write
        with such vigour, should descend to such lines as the following :—
                   Something had happened wrong about a bill
                   Which was not drawn with true mercantile skill,
                   So, to amend it, I was told to go
                   And seek the firm of Clutterbuck Sc Co.
        Surely Emanuel Jennings compared with the above rises to
        sublimity.
             These are the lines which Butler refers to in the next
        letter. They may occur so in some editions of Crabbe,
                 1 Lettcrs of Edward FitsGeraU, vol. ii. p. 211 ; Macmillan, 1894.

 XLI                  NORMAN MACCOLL                                     367
 but in the edition which I possess (Paris : Galignani, 190*
 1829) in Tales of the Hall, No. vii., " The Elder Brother," Aet- w
they occur in this form, which would have done as well as
the other for the preface to Rejected Addresses :
               Something one day occurred about a bill
              That was not drawn with true mercantile skill,
              And I was asked and authorized to go
              To seek the firm of Clutterbuck & Co.
                      Butler to Miss L. I. Jones.
                                                            11 Jan. 1 90J.
     Dear Miss Lilian—I was much relieved yesterday morning
by the account you gave of your brother. I trust that he will
now go on conquering and to conquer till every enemy to his
recovery be subjected and pneumonia itself, etc. etc. I doubt
whether "subjected" is the right word but my New Test,
 memory is getting very unsafe—or does the passage come from
 Dent's Family Prayers? But let that pass.
     I note the lines from Crabbe. Now what did FitzGerald
mean by being so enthusiastic about a man who could write like
that ? Is it possible that a man who could stand that should be
one of those that should redeem Israel ? God knows whether
such a man shall inherit his kingdom, but, for my own part, I am
doubtful. Enough, again, of this.
     And now Mrs. X wants to come to tea. Give that womar
an inch, etc. Her husband got an Iliad and an Odyssey out of me.
They are just like Gaetano. See how they made me hump my
big camera twice to photograph their rooms, and would have made
me hump it a third time only I vowed that I had sold it. They
were quite cross about it.
     As I was going out of the Museum yesterday and getting my
umbrella, MacColl1 came up looking very dull and cross and
heavy. They handed him his coat and I helped him to put it on,
but, as I had my umbrella and packet of papers in my hands, I did
not do it well, and I heard several stitches crack as he struggled
to get his arm in. Of course I ought to have put my umbrella and
parcel down before I helped him on, but I was too lazy, and I
was not altogether sorry that the stitches cracked. He walked with
me to the gate, or rather shambled, for he does not walk, and on
the way said he had seen my sonnet in The Athenaeum and had
thought it very fine. He had asked Rendall who wrote it, and
when I heard this, I was quite sorry about the stitches.
   1 Mr. Norman MacColl, formerly editor of The Athenaeum. He retired early in
1901, and Mr. Vernon Rendall succeeded him.

         368                    SONNET FORMS                              xu
  100266 sonnet
Aet.              was bow
             I sa'd    than ^ar
                             themore
                                 Petrarchian.
                                       beautiful He   Shakespearean
                                                 the said            not say
                                                          " You must form  of
         this to Watts-Dunton. He was always very angry with me when
         I put in a sonnet in the Shakespearean form. He says that any
         one can write a sonnet in the Shakespearean form."
             "Very likely," said I, "but nobody can write one in the
         Petrarchian—at least I have never yet seen one that I could read
         with pleasure." To my suprise he endorsed this, and called the
         Petrarchian form Procrustean, whereon I was even more penitent
         about the stitches. I told him about your brother's illness and he
         was duly sorry—but he is a dull thing. But he blew on Kipling's
         "Islanders."
              By the way, it is borne in upon me that it was very possibly
         Watts-Dunton who wrote that atrocious review of my Sonnet
         book in The Athenaeum. Yes ; it shall be Watts-Dunton. He
         tried to cotton up to me years ago in the old Erewhon days, but
         I detested him and would have none of him.
              I have heard from Mrs. Waddington. Her husband had not
         yet come back from Germany, but was to return to-morrow. If
         he does, he is to come to me on Friday. I will then give him
         your brother's message, and all news about him. I shall have my
          chorus, I believe, complete for him to cut about.
              There have been articles both in The Times and in Nature
         about Stonehenge. It is declared to be a Solar Temple, and, if
         so, by various astronomical calculations is declared to be of date
          from 1 780- 1 680 B.C. This seems a reasonable date. The flint
          implements unearthed during the excavations and evidently then
          used upon the stones, confirm the supposition that it belongs to
         a pre-bronze age. Exit, therefore, all the nonsense talked by
          Flinders Petrie about its being post-Roman of the 6th or 7 th
         century a.d.
              Alfred and I went to Drury Lane last night and found it all
         or nearly all spectacular. He is to take me to the Surrey
         next week as an antidote. We are not to go to Drury Lane
         any more.
              I am to dine at the Morses' on Feb. 6 so they condone
         Erewhon Revisited. And I am to lunch at Miss Sichel's next
         Sunday at 1.30. Renseignements about how to get from
         Downshire Hill, Hampstead, to S. Kensington will be gratefully
         received.
              If Waddington comes on Friday I shall be unable to write
         much on that day, but I have a letter of Miss Savage's jumping
         upon me for one of mine, which will be an efficient substitute. I
         have copied out the last of her letters, but have a few more to
         copy from other people in respect to her. I am sorry, but am
         also glad.

  xli              EDWARD FITZGERALD                  .        369
       Please to give my best love to your brother and believe me, 1902
  with a few additional postcards,—Yours very truly,               Aet. 66
                                                     S. Butler.
       The postcards were addressed to himself so as to save
  my sister trouble ; she was to use them for bulletins about
  my progress.
                    Butler to Miss L. I. Jones.
      24 Jan. 1902—Thank you for your letter received last night
 with its good account of your brother. I note your renseigne-
 ments but will explain on Sunday how I think I can do better. I
 won't waste space on this now.
      I forgot to say that I met Y in the street. He was looking
 quite well and evidently still under the impression that he had
 solved the mystery of the Sonnets once for all, by classifying
 them according to their subjects. God may forgive him but I
 never can.
     I have the second volume of FitzGerald's Letters. I have
 read 40 very monotonous pages not one of which, I should say, is
worth publishing at all. I shall read some more, but I do not
 believe that FitzGerald will ever take higher rank than that of a
most amiable man of very average ability who once made a great
hit which he could not live up to.
     I called on Grant Richards this morning but he is out of
town. I find that up to 31st December, 638 copies of Erewhon
Revisited had been sold, and 480 of Erewhon. The manager
considered this to be very satisfactory. No more reviews save one
in The Tablet for December 14 ; quite genial. I have sent for it
and will send it later.
     There is an article in this day's Times Literary Supplement
declaring that the Dictionary of National Biography abounds
with the grossest inaccuracies in respect of dates, facts, and
references and appealing for a supplementary volume to consist
entirely of corrigenda. I am pleased and perhaps spiteful.
     Cavaliere Negri has written saying that his paper on Crea is
definitely to be published in the Casale Archaeological Magazine
about May, and asking for any blocks I may be disposed to let
him have. This means that I can now proceed with my work
on Tabachetti. I am in doubt as to form and whether I will not
do it by way of a completely new edition of Ex Voto. I lunched
with Bernard Shaw to-day (by accidental coincidence) and left
him an Ex Voto. He is to advise ; the desideratum is to get
Grant Richards to publish, at his own risk, either a work on
Tabachetti or a new Ex Voto. I have told Negri that he shall
      VOL. II                                            2 B

         37o                            MRS. GALLUP                                           XLl
  1901 have some blocks, but that it will be some days before I can give
Act. 66 exact size. I have asked him by what date he will want the
         blocks. The Shaws were most gracious and enthusiastic about
        the Erewhons.
              Waddington came. He will write to your brother. My
        chorus was declared to be somewhat too like the poor curate's
        egg, but before he left it was quite creamy and new-laid. It is
        settled and really I believe very good now. He has started me
        with the scoring.
                                 Butler to Miss L. I. Jones.
              27 "Jan. 1902 —I write to-day because I know I shall not be
        able to do so to-morrow by reason of the Surrey Pantomime and I
        am sure your brother will be glad to have the Times facsimiles of
        the types on which Mrs. Gallup relies. I think these facsimiles
        want supplementing with Mallock's article in (I feel sure) the
        National Review for November. There is a letter from Mrs.
        Gallup ; if le style c'est l'homme holds good also for la femme, I
        do not think we need hesitate about knowing where to place her.
        I enclose her letter.
              I note that in the forthcoming Cornhill there is to be an
        article on the Sonnets. Now I wonder what we shall have there !
        Some rubbish no doubt.
              At Miss Sichel's I was shown a short but most friendly review
        of Erewhon Revisited by Miss Sichel in the Monthly Review for
        January. They were all of them very friendly, but I got no such
        choice morsel for your brother's delectation as one that I told him
        of months ago—I mean about having to do without art or nature.1
              A lady whom your brother knows told me that she was on
        the top of a bus one summer's afternoon and saw Leslie Stephen
        cross in front of the bus in an undecided sort of way, whereon the
        driver said, " Now then, come up, Monkey ! " I wonder, as
        Kennedy said, that the earth did not open and swallow him up.
        What a pity that Leslie Stephen should be so deaf.
             I received a message from Mr. Fuller Maitland that I was not
        to go on to Phillimore Gardens, inasmuch as it was his first day
        of coming down stairs. Some virtuoso was to come and play
        before him and this, he thought, would be as much as he could
        stand. He is mending, but only slowly.
             I cannot get on with FitzGerald's Letters ; they are all right,
        but so fearfully monotonous—and uninterestingly monotonous.
        I shall be glad to change them for the Cornhill, but really the
        blame rests with Aldis Wright and not with FitzGerald.
            1 This is introduced in the conversation at the dinner party in Erewkott Rei'isiad.

 xu                         PERICLES                            371
     I suppose now that I may write to your brother direct, may 1902
 I not ?                                                             Act. 66
     Mr. Roskill (Cooke's son-in-law) sent me a translation of parts
 of the famous speech of Pericles, by Frederic Harrison, and I was
 to admire it. I did not admire it, and translated a few sentences
 of it myself as an example of how I thought it should be done.
 He has written me a very obliging letter to the effect that he
 now agrees with me, and I am confirmed in the good opinion
 that I had already formed of him.
     Miss Coxhead has asked me to dine at her club in Albemarle
Street on Feb. 13. at 7.45. I have accepted.
     I have no more Miss Savage, and am at the end of the notes
I had made of things that your brother might care to hear, so will
add no more.
      Butler's solicitor, Russell Cooke, married the widow
of Ashton Dilke, whose daughter is the wife of Mr. John
Roskill, K.C., so that strictly Butler ought to have
written " Mrs. Cooke's son-in-law."
                     Butler to Mr. J. Roskill.
     25 Jan. 1902—Frederic Harrison's translation is his own, at
any rate it is not Dale's nor Crawley's ; but on reading it more
critically I do not think it is what it ought to be. It does not
flow musically on from sentence to sentence. I will not go into
detail. I find it too often clumsy, stilted, Johnsonian, and
affected.
    I spent an hour this morning in translating ten or a dozen
lines more as I think they should be translated, and on doing so
found that I should want at least another hour before I could get
what I wanted, so I gave it up ; but overleaf you will find both
Harrison's and my own attempts.
                           F. Harrison
    The republican government is one that feels no jealousy nor
rivalry with the institutions of others. We have no wish to
imitate them ; we prefer to be an example to them. It is true
that our constitution is a democracy, for it is framed in the
interest of all, not of any privileged class. Yet while the law
secures to all in their private claims equal justice without favour
of persons, we still recognise the claims of personal superiority,
when a citizen is in any way distinguished by his attainments ;
and he is raised to eminence in the public service not as a matter

        374                        TROUSERS                           xli
  1902 Animals' Rights —"The immediate question that claims our
Act. 66 attention is this : If men have rights, have animals their rights
        also ? " This sentence, on which I lighted at random, is so
        absurdly suggestive of the Rights of Animals chapter which I
        have intercalated into my enlarged Erewhon that Mr. Salt (who
        published his pamphlet in 1900) may be excused for thinking
        that I had him in view when writing my own chapter—but I
        am innocent of all knowledge of his pamphlet. By the way,
        Shaw said that he regarded my chapter on the Rights of
        Vegetables as a direct attack upon himself— but he was not
        serious.
            I saw the following in The Times a day or two ago. Farinelli
        (Handel's Farinelli) having made a large fortune in England
        returned to Italy and built himself a villa which he named
        « England's Folly."
            I may get some pabulum at Shaw's to-morrow, or again at
        the Morses' where I dine on Thursday. If I do it shall be duly
        chronicled, but till then I am afraid my stock is exhausted.
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
             Feb. 7, 1902 — Waddington has come and gone — full of
        enquiry about you, and of kind messages. He has cordially
        approved the alterations I have made in my chorus, and I believe
        I may say thinks the whole chorus very satisfactory. The two
        parts together make 108 bars. We have begun to score it.
             The dinner last night [at the Morses'] went off, I should
        say, excellently, but on beginning to undress [after getting
        home] I found that my trousers, which I had tucked up on
        leaving the Tube, were still tucked up and I have no doubt were
        so during the whole evening. Poor me ! But I do not think it
        much mattered for I was distinctly the lion of the evening, all
        the guests being eager to talk about Erewhon Revisited except
        one man, who deflected me on to Life and Habit and would not
        let me leave it. He and another man asked if I had read
        Helvetius, and said that Schopenhauer had declared that if the
        Almighty had to limit his reading to a single book he would
        choose Helvetius. They said it would be a nice subject to
        select half-a-dozen books for the Almighty's reading. I said that
        at any rate we may be sure he would not read the Bible. There
        were several other things, but you must get them out of me on
        Sunday, as also whatever I can get from Gogin.

xli                          YDGRUN                               375
              Butler to the Editor of The Spectator
                                            15 Clifford's Inn, E.C.,
                                                   8 Feb. 1902.
    Sir—I called your Ap. 20, 1872, review of Erewhon 1902
" favourable " and so it was ; I should have been captious if I had Aet- 6&
called it anything else, for it, and the Pall Mall Gazette article
of Ap. 12, 1872, at once lifted the book into the position which,
with all its faults, it has maintained. But I did not say that I
liked, much less endorsed, everything in its whole four columns.
On the contrary, I disliked extremely the passages quoted by your
reviewer in your this day's issue.
    Your reviewer of to-day does not say that his predecessor in
1872 had also written as follows :
    " What he " (the author of Erewhon) " seems to want to
impress upon his readers is . . . the wisdom of quietly taking
your notions of what is best from the society round you. In one
page the author confesses that the 'high Ydgrunites,' i.e. the
higher worshippers of Ydgrun (Mrs. Grundy) . . . have got
' about as far as it is in the right nature of man to go '—a
judgment which he only modifies by saying that they ought to
speak out more clearly what they think. Of course this, too, may
be veiled satire ; but if it is, the book is without definite drift,
which no one who reads it carefully will readily believe."
     I should hope not. The above passage comes to this : that
my "object" and "intention" was sufficiently plain, viz.: to
uphold the current conscience of a man's best peers as his safest
moral guide. I intended this, intend it, and I trust always shall
intend it. What sane man will uphold any other guidance as
generally safer—exceptis, of course, excipiendis ?
    My " object " and " intention " having been thus clearly
and correctly expressed, I disregarded the subsequent passage
quoted in your this day's issue, as merely a reviewer's parting
kick, and as rendered comparatively harmless by the fuller one
that had gone before. The subsequent passage runs :
    "It is certainly quite true that if anyone will accept the
implied satiric teaching of the book, he will find himself morally
and intellectually * nowhere,' i.e. in Erewhon, when he has
done."
    Your reviewer of to-day, ignoring the first of the two passages
quoted above, tries to fasten it on me that I regard the second as
"praise" inasmuch as speaking of the article as a whole I called
it "favourable." Hence he deduces that "it rightly describes
Mr. Butler's object, and correctly indicates the result to which his
satire is intended to lead." (Italics mine). He, or she, evidently

         376                      SEA-GULLS                                 ru
  1902 does not consider these words as involving a very disgraceful
Art. 66 imputation ; if he (as we will say for brevity) did indeed so
         consider them, he would not use them so lightly. I differ from
         him ; and out of respect for the good opinion both of your readers
         and yourself must request you to publish the foregoing letter.
                                                       Samuel Butler.
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                         February litA, 1902.
             My dear Jones—How I am to fill this sheet I know not.
        If I succeed, the feeding of the 5,000 will be a small miracle in
        comparison, for I have, as it were, but a single literary loaf and
        fish for my nucleus.
             Talking of fishes did you see what I am told was in the
        Daily Mail about the sea-gulls ? I was going last Friday over
        London Bridge to Delph Street where I have a big job on
        (everything seems to come at once) and saw thousands of gulls
        and people on the bridge feeding them. They were lovely, but
        they are unprincipled. A man was walking over London Bridge
        last week with a crate of fresh herrings on his head. The gulls
        swooped down on the fish in such numbers that he was powerless
       against them and half his fish were gone before he could get his
       crate down on to the pavement.
            The job at Delph Street will cost me near £100. Sanitary
       inspector of course ; but it is a good job done—entire recon
       struction of drains, and a lot more. The houses are freehold and
       will stand a large increase of rent, so that I shall be a gainer
       rather than loser by the job.
            Alfred and I have again been to Attwell Road this afternoon
       and were again starved, but I do not think we have taken any
       harm. Sanitary inspector, of course. I don't suppose I shall get
       out of it all under £400, and lucky if that covers it. The rents
       here, too, will stand some increase, but it is a nuisance.
            I told you of my visit to the Fuller Maitlands ; but I forgot
       to say that they told me Nice is very full of small-pox now. So
       you had better not go and stay with your sister Cattie. They
       were very full of going to Sicily in April and May, and it seems
       quite on the cards that I may meet them and put them through
       Trapani and Mt. Eryx. We shall see.
            I sent my letter to The Spectator. I submitted it first to
       Rendall as well as to Grant Richards, and they both cordially
       approved of my sending, but they doubted whether the editor
       would insert it. Rendall said that several people had written to
       him admiring my Sonnet, and one or two indignantly, but these
       last fewer and less important.

  XLI               «« MY LOAF AND FISH "                        377
       By the last post I am sure to have a line from Longman 1902
 declining to publish a new edition of Ex Voto at his own risk. I Aet. 66
 was bound to offer it to him before trying Grant Richards. As
 soon as he has declined it, I can see whether Grant Richards will
 do it or no. If he will not, I shall again appeal to Shaw for
 counsel.
      I have this morning received a long and most flattering review
 of Erewhon and Erewhon Revisited from the New Zealand
 Canterbury Press. They are very proud of the fact that Erewhon
 began in their own paper, and nothing is good enough for me.
 I must show it to Grant Richards when I take him Ex Voto, and
 will send it on to you when he has seen it. It is far the most
 flattering article that I have ever had.
      I am puzzled by something in my correspondence. Do you
 remember our getting two bottles of some spirit or liqueur from
 Varese, one of which I was to take to my father ? I remember
 sending him some honey from Promontogno as soon as I got
 home, but I am pretty sure that on an earlier occasion—say 1883
 or 1882—I had taken him a bottle of liqueur which he examined
 in my presence to see whether or no it had been tampered with.
 Do you remember my ever saying anything to you about this ? I
 find that some years ago I made a note to this effect as regards the
 Promontogno honey, which note letters now read prove to have
 been wrong ; but the incident is so strongly vivid to my mind
 that I cannot believe it to be an unconscious invention of my
own. Please help me if you can.
      Erewhon (the old book) was casually mentioned quite friendly
wise in last Friday's Times Literary Supplement.
      Monro, an Oxford don, has published the last 1 2 books of the
Odyssey. Merry did the first twelve some years ago. Not a
word about my theory. I am told, but have not seen the book,
that there is no mention of what I have said about Trapani and
Mt. Eryx in Douglas Sladen's Sicily. I shall not break my heart
in either case.
     There—my loaf and fish have held out better than I feared
they would, but I fear the loaf has been rather unleavened and
the fish but as one of those Mediterranean gray mullets which we
      in train
get With       restaurants.
             very kind regardsHowever,
                                to your sister,—I
                                        I have done   Yours,
                                                  am,my best.
                                                       S. Butler.
      I do not know whether his father really was suspicious,
and perhaps Butler himself did not think he was. He
said so much about the examining the liqueur and the
honey as to make me think that he was trying to persuade
himself. In the end it was settled that there was some

      378                        THE HORNS                             «j
 190* thing wrong in his notes, and that he had brought or sent
Art-66his rather (1) the liqueur from Varese ; (2) the Pro-
      montogno honey ; and (3) some honey from Bertoli, the
      famous bee-master of Varallo-Sesia. He talked it over
      again with me at this time (1902) and inserted a correc
      tion in his Note-Book, wherein he wrote that I remembered
       his telling me about it so long ago as during his father's
       life-time, and that I intimated that he had " frequently
      returned to the subject." That is quite correct, and I
      remember now that I conveyed this intimation in a
      form which made him laugh by quoting the Duke of
      Wellington's reply when the King, speaking of the Battle
      of Waterloo, said :
            " I was there, wasn't I, Duke ? "
            " I have heard your Majesty say so."
            I sent to Mudie's for Douglas Sladen's book about
      Sicily, and found that what Butler had said about Trapani
      and Mount Eryx is mentioned in it, and I told him so.
      This is referred to in the next extract.
                              Butler to H. F. Jones.
            Feb. 14//1, 1902—I thank you for two letters, one of Feb.
       1 2th, the other of yesterday. Your illustration about the
       immortality of the tune and not that of the fiddle is very fine.
       I told it to Streatfeild (as yours) this morning, and he admired it
      very much. I have edited your 1885 letters ; they are very good
       indeed, and Milton is only necessary in a passage or two about
      " the horns," our feelings towards whom need not now be
      expressed. There is also one passage which I have bowdlerised
      and which I enclose on a separate piece of paper that you may
      tear it up. If you wish it unbowdlerised I can easily re-insert
      it in your letter. I am sorry to lose it, but I suppose it had
       better go.
            Certainly my note about my father's examining the lid of the
       Promontogno honey-jar is wrong. I sent it by parcel post and
       received a letter next day acknowledging the receipt. I shall
       wait till I have got through the 1886 letters to see if I can find a
      clue to what really happened. I cannot think that I dreamed or
       invented the story, but I am puzzled.
            Thank you for telling me about Douglas Sladen's book. I
       will see it as soon as they get it at the Museum.
            Very glad that you are so distinctly gaining ground, but be

xli         THE TUNE AND THE FIDDLE                            379
careful. I have caught cold—the cooling rooms at the Turkish 1901
Bath last Wednesday were much too cold. I was very doubtful Aet. 66
about going to Miss Coxhead's, but went, and do not think it
did me any harm. I am sitting in my great coat all day, and
have been out twice, once to see Streatfeild, and again this after
noon to Islington, where I found all well. Now I am keeping
snug and warm and expect to be able to go to Harwich to-morrow.
I want a day or two's change.
    At Miss Coxhead's the conversation turned, inter alia, on what
one was to do when people consulted one about whether they
should get married or no. I said I had a very simple rule. If I
thought I should have to give them a wedding present I strongly
advised them to refrain, otherwise I left them to follow their own
instincts. I advised Cesare Coppo not to marry, but I think in
this case I should have given the same advice, wedding present
or no.
    P.S.—To thwart the American attempt to monopolise the
English tobacco trade, I have at Alfred's instigation got 300
cigarettes of Lambert & Butler's, but most of them draw so badly
that it is no pleasure to smoke them. Serve me right !
     I do not know why he should have told the illustration
about immortality to Streatfeild as mine. I read it in I
forget- what book and never claimed it as mine. The
author may have been thinking of the illustration about
the harmony and the lyre which Simmias introduces in
the conversation with Socrates before his death in the
Phaedo. At the time neither Butler nor I was reminded
of Plato ; and perhaps the author was not thinking of the
passage, for his object was not the same as that of Simmias.
He was drawing the contrast between the life of the
corporeal fiddle and the life of the incorporeal tune
played on the fiddle. The fiddler perhaps symbolises
" the ineffable contradiction in terms whose presence none
can either ever enter, or ever escape " (Luck or Cunning ?
p. 153), but I do not remember that anything was said
about Him. Nor was it pointed out that neither the life
of the fiddle nor that of the tune is, strictly speaking,
immortal ; the first can continue only so long as the wood
holds together, and the second only so long as there are
men to remember the tune, to be influenced by it, and to
pass it on.

         38o                     THE TRUE UFE                                      hj
 190Z        But using the word loosely, as one may do for the
Att- 6< sake of an illustration, he was illustrating the contrast
         between the immortality in a material sense of the body,
         and the immortality in a spiritual sense of the work done
         by the body, the inference being that the latter is the only
        desirable or comprehensible immortality. I told this to
        Butler because I knew that he would consider it " very
        fine." I knew that he was thinking of himself when
        he composed the Epitaph, reproduced in chapter x. of
        Erewhon Revisited, for Mr. Higgs to copy while resting
        in the Musical Bank at Fairmead :
                BUT I CONTINUE
          INTO WHICH    WHILE
                        THAT
                         AND
                       FALLYET
                             ASLEEP
                              THAT
                               MY
                               THE
                                 SHALL
                                    SLUMBER
                                     THOUGH
                                     OF
                                     POWER
                                  THAT      THOSE
                                            THE
                                      III ILIFE
                                             NOTTO
                                                IN
                                                SHALL
                                                 FULL
                                                 I BETHE
                                                    IBE
                                                     STRIVE
                                                       LOVED
                                                       ALL-FORGOTTEN
                                                        ALL-FORGETTING
                                                         AND
                                                         HOT
                                                          THOUGHTS
                                                             WAS
                                                              CERTAIN
                                                              BE BROKENVOUCHSAFED
                                                                       HOPE
                                                                  TET AND DEEDS   UI
                                I FONDLT STROVE TO ENTER
             This is the true life of the world to come, this life
        which we, like the tune played on the fiddle, live in the
        hearts and memories of others. It may be objected that
        this is all very well, but that every man is endowed with
        this immortality at birth, for everything, however slight,
        that any one ever does produces an effect which in some
        way influences others ; there is no escape. We can how
        ever strive, while the power to strive is yet vouchsafed us,
        that those others in whose hearts and memories we are to
        live hereafter shall remember us with love and not with
        loathing.
             Mrs. Boss, though she be all-forgetting, is not all-
        forgotten. She lives, and is at this moment influencing
        me as she influenced Butler when, in the foregoing letter,
        he alluded to " the horns " immediately after the passage
        about the fiddle and the tune. In moments of depression
        she used to exclaim : " Oh, I wish the horn would blow
        for me and the worms take me this very night ! " She
       would never have understood if she had been told that
        Butler, by putting this aspiration of hers into the mouth
       of Mrs. Jupp in The fVay of All Flesh, had conferred

xli                     BRIDGING TIME                            381
immortality upon her. When she wished the horn to '9°*
blow for her she meant she was impatient for the sound
of the last trump. By some figure of rhetoric, of which
she consciously knew no more than she knew of theology,
she skilfully shifted the name of the instrument to any
 person whose earthly loss she considered would not be
irreparable. And we caught the trick from her.
           Butler to Mr. O.    T. Zealand.
                             New  J. Alpers, Christchurch,
                                                       17 Feb. 1902.
      My dear Sir—I cannot allow the receipt of the extremely
kind and gratifying article which reached me a few days ago to
 pass without a few lines expressive of the pleasure it has caused
 me. The only fault I have to find with it is that it praises both
 books too highly. As for Erewhon, it wanted re-writing ; but
as that tree fell so it had to lie, save for what additions were
necessary in order to secure it a new copyright. Ertwhon
Revisited, I confess, I prefer ; and though scales will doubtless
 fall from my eyes in respect to it if I live a few years longer, at
present I am afraid I am better pleased with it than perhaps any
author ought to be with his own work.
      When I was studying painting in my kind old friend Mr.
 Heatherley's studio, I remember hearing a student ask how long
a man might hope to go on improving. Mr. Heatherley said :
"As long as he is not satisfied with his own work." Absit
omen ! May dissatisfaction greater than I now feel ere long
discipline me in great revenue T
      Alas, it is not only " more than 30 years " since the embryo
of Erewhon appeared in The Press, but close on 40 ! What a
great gap of time yawns between now and then ! And so in
those days I was enthusiastic about Titian ? No doubt ; but
he has not held his own with me as Handel has done. Handel,
like Homer and Shakespeare, grips me ever with tighter hold ;
what hold Titian, Leonardo, Raffaelle, and Michael Angelo have
over me (and—well, to speak quite plainly, I like none of them)
is a hold on brain, not on heart. But let that pass.
      If you knew, as none but myself and a few intimate friends
know, how fiercely and continuously I have been vituperated
almost from the very day on which Erewhon ceased to be
anonymous, you would understand the relief it is to me to have
at last written a book that has met with a cordial, generous
reception. There have been few reviews of Erewhon Revisited

        382             THE PRICE OF GENIUS
 1901 to which the most captious author could take exception, but the
Att.66 intermediate books have all been dead failures ; so much so that
        I am now more than /i,ioo to the bad with mv books as a
        whole —a sum which being spread over 30 years has never
        pinched me. I cannot appeal ad misericordiam ; I am exceedingly
       comfortably off; but I mention the sum to show how utterly
        flat the books have fallen as regards the numbers of their readers,
        though I doubt whether there is a single one of them that has
        not made a certain mark.
             How could I expect anything else ? With Erewhon Charles
       Darwin smelt danger from afar. I knew him personally ; he
       was one of my grandfather's pupils. He knew very well that
       the machine chapters in Erewhm would not end there, and the
       Darwin circle was then the most important literary power in
       England.
            I fear Erewhon did not find favour again with the religious
       world. Still less did its successor, The Fair Haven, do so.
       With Life and Habit the fat was in the Darwinian fire, and it
       was war to the death between us. This, and its successors,
       Evolution Old and New, Unconscious Memory, and Luck or
       Cunning ?, to quote the words of a leader of the Darwinian party
       that were reported to me, "made Butler impossible." I
       sandwiched Alps and Sanctuaries in between the two last-named
       books, but I had got too bad a name for it to find favour with
      more than a very few, who, however, were delighted with it.
      Then came Ex Voto in which I fell foul of Layard, and unearthed
      a whole school of sculpture of which the pundits of art knew
      nothing. No man can do this and be received with open arms.
      Then came my Life of Dr. Butler—a book which was well
      received enough, but over which I was thankful not to have
      dropped much more than £200 ; and by tilting at Arnold I
      angered all Arnold's still powerful worshippers. Then came
       The Authoress of the Odyssey. Why more ? The fact is that I
      have never written on any subject unless I believed that the
      authorities on it were hopelessly wrong. If I thought them
      sound, why write ? The consequence is that I have through
      out, I am profoundly thankful to say, been in a very solitary
      Ishmaelitish position, and I heartily trust that the temporary
      success of this last book may not tempt me to abandon the
      attitude which for so many years I have maintained, on the
      whole greatly to the satisfaction of my own conscience. Pardon
      me, dear Sir, for the length to which this letter has extended
      itself (which it would not have done, but for the warmly
      sympathetic tone of your own article), and believe me,—Yours
      very truly,                                          S. Butler.

 xu                  CORRESPONDENCE                               383
                      Butler to H. F. Jones.
                                                      Feb. 19, 1901.
     Mv dear Jones — I write a few lines before going to 1902
Alexander Balus, but I have hardly a thing to tell you ; and if it Aet- 66
was not for Alexander Balus and Handel I should not stir out
again this evening, for my cold is still heavy, chiefly through my
own fault. This long spell of cold has stopped my Thursday
outings, and my Sunday outings (for it is really the cold and not
your illness that has stopped them), and put me off" twice from
Harwich ; so that I am not quite at my best, and have stuck
too closely to editing correspondence and copying and scoring
music. However, I shall do nothing this evening, and to-morrow
Alfred and I mean to go for a walk.
     Talking of doing nothing, did I tell you that in one of Miss
Savage's letters she wrote of a man who had an unexpected
holiday on a summer's day and could not make up his mind
whether he should go to the Green Park and lie out all day under
a tree, or whether he should do nothing ?
     My knees continuing very stiff and rheumatic, I went to
Jaeger's and bought myself a pair of woollen knee-warmers which
I hope will mend matters, price 2/9.
     I called on old Mrs. Tylor and Mrs. Morse on Sunday
afternoon, and learned that the Mr. Guthrie who was very civil
to me when I dined at the Morses' was F. Anstey, author of
Vice Versa, etc. You must tell me what pretty things to say
to him if we meet again. He was a very pleasant little man.
     Grant Richards has not yet returned the article in The Press,
but I am to have it to-morrow morning and will send it on.
Meanwhile there has appeared a quite friendly review— not very
long, but enough—of Erewhon Revisited in the Antokgia Nuova,
the leading literary Italian paper. Cesare Coppo copied it out
and sent it. Grant Richards has it, and I will send it on when
I get it back. I saw him this morning but neither asked nor was
told his views about Ex Voto.
     I have settled my correspondence now as far as the death of
my father, Dec. 29th, 1886, and am thankful to have done so,
for the period is not a pleasant one to resuscitate, and I think I
shall find all subsequent years easier and quicker editing. I am,
however, piling up an accumulation of rubbish in this corre
spondence with you, which when I reach 1902 I shall find
troublesome. Pray get well quickly. On the other hand, for
the present I know that you are better where you are.
     May [Miss Butler] has seen my letter to The Spectator and
" we are a little sorry you said that about the he or she—however
 true the she—as your letter seemed to lose a little dignity by it."

         384                   JEAN DE WESPIN                             XL[
 1902 I wonder what hole-picking Shrewsbury neighbour has called and
Aet. 66 pUt them up to this. I hope you do not see anything to object
         to in what I said. Streatfeild, Barwick, Rendall, Grant Richards,
        and you—none of you made any comment and I can see nothing
        to object to in the passage. Tell me if you do.
             And now, pray get well as soon as ever you can, but not faster
        than is prudent. With kind regards to your sister,—I am, Yrs.
                                                               S. Butler.
                             Butler to Grant Richards.
             20 Feb. 1902—Pray do not return the copy of Ex Voto unless,
        that is to say, you do not even feel inclined to give it house room.
        I am not surprised at your not being inclined to risk money on a
        new edition, and I agree with you that it is only the off-chance of
        getting some young publisher to wish to get my name on his list
        that would incline any other publisher whatever to take it up—
        and this is infra dig.
             I propose, therefore, to change my scheme and write a new
        book of about 200 pp. (though how to fill so many, I don't know
        yet—but they will come) entitled 'Jean de IVespin [i.e. Giovanni
         Tabachetti) with whatever additional condiment consideration may
        suggest, giving a good deal of what I have already said in Ex Voto
        about him, and all that I have since learned, and shall learn from
        Cav. Negri's forthcoming monograph about him. The illustra
        tions should give (from new blocks) most if not all those given
        in Ex Voto. Those in Ex Voto are collotype and no more can
        be got.
             I propose to say nothing about the other Valsesian sculptors,
        but to limit myself to Jean de Wespin (alias Giovanni Tabachetti)
        and I think a pretty book enough might be made on this subject.
             My point is this. At Namur the Archaeological Society and
        at Casale Monferrato my friend Cavaliere Negri are begging
        me to help them with blocks of Tabachetti's chapel. I have
        promised them some which, of course, I must have made at my
        own expense, but I shall insist on having the blocks returned to
        me for use in my own book. The size of those used in Ex Voto
        would suit them very well, and I should think would suit my
        book. Kindly consider whether you think the Ex Voto page a
        suitable one for the work I contemplate. I will call in a day or
        two and hear your opinion. I want if possible to have blocks
        made that will suit the Namur people, the Casale people and
       myself.
             Perfidious man ! You have not returned the Antologia review.
        It will do quite well if you give it me when next I call. I write
        to Alpers at once.

 XLI                     FALSE TEETH                           385
      I know you will give me a chalk for showing you exactly the 1901
 poverty of my hand in respect to sales of Ex Voto.                 Aet- 66
                       Butler to H. F. Jones.
      21 Feb. 1902—Grant Richards is very reasonably afraid of
 taking up Ex Voto so I change my tactics and contemplate
 a short book entitled Jean de Wespin, otherwise known as
  Tabachetti.
      Waddington has been here this afternoon full of sympathetic
 enquiries about you as usual. He said Stanford was a great
 admirer of Narcissus—but I think we have heard that before. I
 went to Alexander Balus and stayed to the last note. The
 overture is excellent. " Calumny," of course, tremendous. They
 murdered " Convey me to some peaceful shore " by dragging it
 past endurance. There were two fine airs that I had forgotten,
 "Strange reverse of human fate" and "To God, who made the
 radiant sun." No part was dreary except the recitatives, but
 there was a good deal which did not rise above Handel's more
 common form music.
      By this time I was recovering and beginning to go
out and so the " accumulation of rubbish in this
 correspondence " with me began to lessen. The next
extract refers to my going down to Clifford's Inn to
see him.
                       Butler to H. F. Jones.
     22 Feb. 1902—Any afternoon will suit Alfred and me (Alfred,
by the way, has been telling me that he does not mean to allow
me to be cremated in my teeth—meaning my false teeth with the
gold frame) except Tuesday, when we go again to Peckham, and
Thursday till 4.30 : by 4.30 we are sure to be at home.
                       Butler to H. F. Jones.
     25 Feb. 1902—Thank you for returning the Antologia. I do
not suppose it will make a single Italian read the book but it will
get talked of in Sicily and indirectly do some good to my
Odyssey theory.
     I send you now a long and very illegible letter from Rendall
{Athenaeum) about my book on the Sonnets. What a comfort it
is to find that someone else besides yourself is gifted with
intelligence !
      VOL. II                                            2 C

    386                    NEW ZEALAND                                 xu
    Butler to Mr. O. T. J. Alpers, Christchurch, New Zealand.
                                                         6 March 1902.
>2       Dear Sir—My answer to your very kind letter of Jan. 29,
 66 posted by me by anticipation on Feb. 17, is already by this time
    half way on its journey to Christchurch, and as it was, I fear,
    rather long I will ask you to be kind enough to consider this as a
    simple P.S. When I wrote the body of the letter I supposed
    myself indebted to you for the copy of your article, which, pray
    believe me, is much the most appreciative that any of my books
    has ever received, and much the most flattering to myself.
         When Sir Julius von Haast was here in 1887 I gave him a
    complete set of all the books that I had published up to that date,
    with a request that he would place them in whatever public
    library (I rather think he named that of the College) was the most
    appropriate. I have often wondered whether his death, which
    happened not long after his return to New Zealand, might not
    have prevented the carrying out of my intention. Since 1887 I
    have written about as many books as I had done up to that date.
    Perhaps you or Miss Colborne-Veel would be kind enough to see
    whether the books were placed in any of the public libraries, and
    if so, in which. I shall be very glad to send a complete set (except
    my book about Canterbury of which I have only one copy and
    which has been long out of print) or the balance of those that have
    appeared since 1887 in case the earlier ones are already in your
    librarv. On being advised, by you, or Miss Colborne-Veel, or
    Mr. Triggs, as to what is wanted, I will send them at once. I
    should perhaps say that Unconscious Memory is a very scarce book
    —some years out of print. I have only 3 copies. Again thanking
    you, and resolute not to overrun the page. — I am, Dear Sir,-
    Yours very truly,
                                                           S. Butler.
                        Butler to Mr. T. L. Agar.
         28 March 1902—One line before I start for Sicily (as I do in
    an hour's time) to say that either the Coin Room people have
    modified their opinion, or I (which is perhaps more probable)
    misunderstood them, and that they now do not see much analogy
    to Eryx and Segesta coins in the Iakin coin [ The Authoress of the
    Odyssey, p. 227] and do see considerable analogy to Catanian coins
    in the head of the river-god. Therefore, without professing to be
    confident either way, they incline to place the coin as coming from
    the neighbourhood of Catania.
         This does not touch the fact that the coin on one side is

xu                   THE IAKIN COIN                            387
intended to represent Ulysses's brooch. We are all agreed about 1901
that. Nor yet that the subject was chosen as indicating some Act. 66
special connection with the Odyssey ; here again we are all agreed.
     The question is why a city on the West side of Sicily should
claim connection with the Odyssey and why they should be
 Ionians.
     For reasons far too long to write I can understand this
perfectly well. The city was wrong, but within ten miles north
of Catania we have Aci-Trezza (always by the common people
called Iaci-Trezza), Aci-Reale, Aci-Castello (also pronounced by
the vulgar Iaci), and Aci-Trezza claims to this day to be the
site of Ulysses's adventure with Polyphemus. I therefore give
up the Ionian city near Trapani and think it likely that the coin
came from some Ionian town on the East side of Sicily ; the sea
that washes this is given in the maps of to-day as the "Mare
Ionio," so that Ionians as well as Dorians were probably settled
there.
    My own argument that the Odyssey was written entirely at
Trapani remains where it was. I always said I gave the coin as
a hors d'oeuvre. If the Coin Room people continued to place it
as an Eryx and Segesta coin I should have stuck to it, but as they
do not I very willingly abandon it.

                           CHAPTER XLII
                                1902—Part II
                                 LAST DAYS
 T9<» Butler left London for Sicily on Good Friday 28th
iet. 66 March 1902. He had been looking forward to the
        journey and had written to his friends in the south that
        he was coming. Mr. and Mrs. Fuller Maitland were
        going to Sicily also ; they were to meet him and he was
        to accompany them to Trapani and to show them the
        country of the Odyssey. I was not sufficiently recovered
        to go, but it was settled that I should start later and meet
        Butler in North Italy on his return.
             From Paris Butler wrote to me that on the boat,
        crossing to Calais, he met a man he slightly knew who
        told him—
        ... a very singular thing, i.e. that Eustathius, the earliest com
        mentator upon Homer in post-Christian times, circ. a.d. 900—
        1 100, says that Homer took much of his poems from a poem
        written by a woman, which was preserved in the temple of
        Memphis in Egypt. At Rome I will verify. I hope you are
        mending. I am all right now.
             He followed his usual route to Casale-Monferrato
        where he found himself so unaccountably weak that he
        sent for Dr. Giorcelli and stayed two days to recover.
        The Negri family and the Coppo family both tried to
        make him rest. " Stay here a fortnight," they said, " you
        are not well enough to travel ; recover your health and
        then go." But he only replied that he had promised to
        go to Sicily and intended to keep his promise. They
                                       388

     ^W ^^> W 7*^ Ma^iU^P
 ^ ^*u> . y ^^ «^^& ^-v^ A*J ?jLesu
fiw&T^^ fez ^O C^Jf 6,<shJ c+sk J^.jL.A^
               4r~fatty f«j£ '7
¦/CmA*~r.' OL,

         390                    DR. THURNAM                                xui
  iooi66 Better
Aet.             write
             There     here. you
                     ! now     I miss
                                  see you
                                      why very much, give
                                           I cannot            the ansame
                                                       but atyou          time
                                                                       address.
         am most thankful that you are not with me. It is a great relief to
         me and makes things much easier for me, for I can run myself
         quite well. ... I sauntered to the Collegio Romano yesterday
         and found my passage. It runs :
             " Tis said that one Naucrates has recorded how a woman of
         Memphis, named Phantasia, a teacher of philosophy, daughter of
         Nicharchus, composed the stories of the war before Ilius and the
         wanderings of Ulysses, and placed the books in the temple of
         Hephaestus at Memphis. Whereon Homer came there and
         having obtained copies of the originals wrote the Iliad and the
         Odyssey. Some say that either he was an Egyptian born, or
         travelled to Egypt and taught the people there."
             How like this is to the corruption of the story of Owen
         Parfitt given in my Life of Dr. Butler^ or to the change of Stefano
         Scotto in the "Ecce Homo" chapel [at Varallo-Sesia] into a
         portrait of Tanzio d' Enrico in vulgar Varallo tradition: the
         truth being that the next figure to Stefano Scotto was a portrait
         of his brother, Giovanni d' Enrico. Eustathius died a.d. 1023
         Bishop (or Archbishop) of Thessalonica.
              The English doctor who was staying in the hotel was
         Dr. Rowland Thurnam. I made his acquaintance a few
         years after Butler's death ; he came to the Fifth Erewhon
         dinner in July 19 12 and made a speech telling us about
         his meeting with Butler. It seems that Dr. Thurnam
         got into conversation with a stranger during dinner at
         the hotel in Rome ; something was said about Sicily—I
         think Thurnam was returning from there — and the
         stranger said he was on his way to Trapani and Mount
         Eryx and added something about the Odyssey. Thurnam,
         who had read The Authoress, said :
              " Oh ! but in that case you ought to talk to old
         Butler."
              " I am old Butler," replied the stranger.
              So they sat up talking till about three in the morning,
         with the waiter looking in time after time to see how
         soon it would be possible for him to turn out the lights
         and go to bed. And this midnight conversation with
         "an enthusiastic admirer," like the conversation at
         Pesaro with Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Strong the year before,
         did him more good than any medicine.

 XL11                     J. H. BAKER                       39 1
      It happened that there was also staying in the hotel 1902
 Mr. John H. Baker whose daughter, at the table d'h6te, Aet" 66
 pointed out Butler to her father saying :
      "Do you see that old gentleman with the shaggy
 eyebrows sitting over there ? I've nicknamed him the
 Philosopher."
      Baker looked at the gentleman and felt as though he
 had come into his life at some time, but could not
 remember under what circumstances. An idea occurred
 to him and as soon as an opportunity offered he went
 and sat next the Philosopher, and said :
      " Were you ever in New Zealand ? "
      " Yes. About forty years ago."
      Baker looked at him again and then said :
      " You're Sam Butler."
      "Yes—and, by God ! you're John Baker."
      These two had not met since the days of their
prospecting for country in New Zealand—the days when
they had found the pass, afterwards crossed by Whitcombe,
which is described as the entry to Erewhon, the days
when they lived, when they were all agog for " country ' ;
as Colonel Lean says in his letter to Butler (ante, p. 1 70)—
. . . when I found you at the club with a rim above your sun-
and-glacier-burnt mask which told me of your explorations before
your own narrative. You found a better thing than 'country'—
you found Erewhon.
      After a rest in Rome he considered himself well
enough to go to Naples and by boat to Palermo, where
he arrived 12th April, the Fuller Maitlands arriving
there about the same time.           He wrote asking me to
send him a sixpenny novel or two ; he had read Man
and Wife and had looked into P/iroso and liked it fairly
well ; but, as he did not like Quisante, which he found in
the hotel in Rome, he thought he would not try any
more Anthony Hope. He wrote to me from Palermo :
     No, please send me a volume of George Meredith (I think
there is a cheap edition) and my blood be upon my own head.
     Later on. No, I am not better and must stay here a day or
two, I think ; but will see how I am to-morrow and will let
you know.

         392                      CHARLOTTE                              un
  190266 better
Aet.              it went
              So and  repeatedly
                             on forsaid
                                     a month.
                                        how thankful  he wasthat
                                                 He wrote            he was
                                                                 I was   not
         with him to add to his anxieties. Nevertheless, if I had
         been well enough I should have gone to him and chanced
         his objecting to my doing so, and I should have found
         him very much worse than he would admit. Mrs. Fuller
         Maitland was ill also.         Fuller Maitland spent most of
         his time between the two sick-rooms and the chemist's
         shop, and sometimes Mrs. Fuller Maitland sent her maid
         to offer help to Butler. After he had been in Palermo
         about a fortnight the doctor made him have a nurse, a
         very competent Austrian woman.            The coming of the
         nurse cheered him up and he wrote that he had turned
         the corner.        There were also Ingroja, who came down
         from Calatafimi, Angelo Li Bassi, and Ingroja's nephew,
         Michele Utveggio ; they all came to see him and he
         found them about as much as he could stand ; but I
         think he would have missed their visits if they had left
         off coming, and he merely put it as he did to support his
         statement that he did not want Alfred or me.
              One day he received a letter from one of his sisters
         and talked about her to Fuller Maitland, taking the line
         adopted by Edward Overton in the passage from chapter
         lxxxvi. of The Way of All Flesh where he speaks of
         Ernest's sister Charlotte :
             There is a de haut en bas tone in all her letters ; it is rather
         hard to lay one's finger upon it, but Ernest never gets a letter
         from her without feeling that he is being written to by one who
         has had direct communication with an angel. " What an awful
         creature," he once said to me, " that angel must have been if it
         had anything to do with making Charlotte what she is." . . .
         Her letters are supposed to be unusually well written and I
         believe it is said among the family that Charlotte has far more
         real literary power than Ernest has. ... I daresay she writes
         very well but she has fallen under the dominion of the words
         "hope," "think," "feel," "try," "bright," and "little," and can
         hardly write a page without introducing all these words and
         some of them more than once. All this has the effect of making
         her style a little monotonous.
              "Come now," said Fuller Maitland, bantering him,
         " aren't you rather hard on your sister ? Isn't she really

 xlii                   ALPHA AND OMEGA                                     393
 a very good sort of woman ? I'm sure of one thing : 19°*
 When she dies she will go straight up to Heaven, et*
 whereas you              "
       " I'm not afraid of anything of that kind," interrupted
 Butler ; " the Almighty's taste in literature is far too
 good to allow of his committing such an error."
       Then he talked to Fuller Maitland about his books
 and how Erewhon was his Alpha and Erewhon Revisited
 his Omega. This is the conversation he alludes to in the
 P.S. of the following letter.
      Early in May he was considered well enough to be
 moved and on the nth the nurse brought him to Naples,
 and he sent for Alfred to go out and help to bring him
 home.
            Butler to Mr. and Mrs. Fuller Maitland.
   Return (if it fail to reach) to S. Butler. 15. Clifford's Inn, London E.C.
                                                Bertolini's Palace Hotel
                                                Naples Wed. May 1+, 1902.
                                                           A perfect Hotel.
      Dear Mr. and Mrs. Fuller Maitland— I did not answer
Mr. Fuller Maitland's very kind letter sent to Palermo, for
lack of sufficient address.            This may, and I trust will, be
 forwarded from Rome. I now write to say that there is no
doubt that I am far more gravely ill than was suspected by any
of us, and am only being hurried home as a prelude to consulta
tions, operations, and artificial prolongations of what Christian
charity should curtail.
     So be it ! Alfred starts from London to-day. He and the
nurse are to accompany me both of them to Basle and Alfred to
London. The doctor fully believes that I may reach London
much as now, and there may be weeks or even months before the
end comes, but I can see he has not the faintest doubt what the
end is to be.
     Therefore with infinite thanks for infinite kindness received
from both of you and every cordial good wish for many years of
happiness and health to you both, I bid you both heartily
farewell. No answer, please.-—Always very affectionately to both
of you,                                                         S. Butler.
     You will not forget the pretty roundness of my literary
career ! a Erewhon, <a Erewhon Revisited.

         394              FAREWELL TO TRAPANI                              on
                          Butler to J. A. Fuller Maitland.
  1902         16 May 1902 — Alfred is expected hourly but not yet
Act. 66 come. ... I am no better and dread the journey to England,
         but I doubt whether the doctor takes quite so gloomy a view of
         my ultimate chance as he did when I wrote.
             You shall hear as soon as we reach London—if we reach it—
         but please send an address. We travel as fast as we can. No
        more please, but all love to you both.
               Alfred arrived and they travelled straight through,
        dropping the nurse at Calais and reaching London on
         1 9th May. The editor of Quo Vadis ? sent from Trapani
        a copy of his newspaper which I suppose contained some
        allusion to Butler or his books.
                         Butler to the Editor of Quo Vadis ?
                                                     15 Clifford's Inn, E.C.
                                                          Maggio 22, 1902.
             Caro Signore — Tomato a casa con grande difficolta, un
        paio di giorni fa, sotto le ali di una guardia di ammalato da
         Palermo, e del mio domestico chiamato da me a Napoli, in uno
        stato di estrema debolezza, e con poca speranza di guarigione,
        scrivo queste righe per ringraziarla di aver mi spedito due numeri
        del £{uo Vadis ? di Aprile 2, 1902, i quali ho letto con vivo
        piacere. Al medesimo tempo, saluto gli amici Trapanesi, li
        abbraccio, alzo mio cappello, e li dico cordialmente addio.—
        Sono sempre il suo servitore afP"0 e dev"10             S. Butler.
             ( Translation)                          » 5 Clifford's Inn, E.C.
             x            '                                May 22, 1902.
             Dear Sir — Having returned home with great difficulty a
        couple of days ago, under the wing of a nurse from Palermo and
        of my servant whom I sent for from Naples, in a state of extreme
        weakness and with little hope of recovery, I write these lines to
        thank you for having sent me two copies of the £hto Vadis ? of
       April 2nd, 1902, which I have read with real pleasure. At the
       same time I salute my Trapanese friends, I embrace them, I
        raise my hat and I bid them a cordial farewell. —I am always,
        Your very affectionate and devoted servant,             S. Butler.
             The doctor at Naples had alarmed Butler ; he started
       too suddenly and travelled too fast for me to join him on

 xlii               MAKING HIS WILL                       395
 the Continent, but as soon as I knew he was in London 1902
 I followed. By an odd chance Mr. and Mrs. Fuller Aet- 66
 Maitland were in the train by which I travelled from
 Basel to Folkestone, and Fuller Maitland told me many
 of the particulars given above about Butler's illness in
 Palermo.
       On reaching London I went at once to the nursing
 home to which Dr. Dudgeon had had Butler moved from
 Clifford's Inn. Physically he had changed very much
 since I had last seen him, two months before. He was
 shrunk, feeble, and shockingly pale. His complexion
 had always been florid—Gogin complained of the difficulty
 of painting it in 1 896—and even before starting for his last
journey to Sicily his face was the colour I had always
 known it ; but now he was as white as the sheets of his
 bed. His letters from Palermo had shown me that he
 was not himself mentally ; he forgot whether he had
 written yesterday ; he told me the same thing twice ; he
 had an idea, and this worried him terribly, that if one of
 us were to die there would be trouble about our respective
rights in the music we had published together, whereas
the matter had already been considered and dealt with by
 his will and mine. When I saw him in London I noticed
at once that mentally he was himself again ; the thing that
troubled him most, after his physical health, was his will
which he wanted to revise. But he knew that in a few
days he could re-make his will, and Dr. Dudgeon had
assured him that the doctors he had seen in Italy were
wrong and there would be no need for any operation.
      In altering his will he directed Mr. Clark, who came
from Russell Cooke's office, to put himself down for a
legacy of £100. On reflection, he said it was hard lines
to dangle £100 before the poor man and then get well :
      " When you have told anyone you have left him a
legacy the only decent thing to do is to die at once, and
here am I getting better and better and stronger and
stronger every day."
      So Alfred had to fill up a cheque for £50 for Clark
to go on with until such time as the legacy might become
payable.

          396           PLANS FOR THE FUTURE                       xui
  1 901        In spite of his gaiety and cheerfulness it was obvious
           before.
Act. 66 tjjat        I also
                 j^ was     knew,
                         verv  j|j—far
                                   as soon
                                        worse I sawhehim,
                                           as than          everhebeen
                                                       hadthat     had
          really wanted me at Palermo and that I should not have
          added to his anxieties if I had been well enough to travel
          so far. My presence there could not have made any real
          difference ; he was far too ill for that ; but I shall never
          cease to regret that things fell out so that I could not be
          with him.
               He was not comfortable in the home, and Alfred and
          I moved him to another which Dr. Dudgeon found in
         St. John's Wood where there was nothing to complain
         of. He wrote and told his sisters the provisions of his
         new will as soon as it was executed, because the knowledge
         might influence them in dealing with their own property ;
         and he wrote this letter himself in case they might not
         have liked to receive a letter touching on their private
         affairs in Alfred's handwriting.
              He talked about his books and of what he intended
         to do if he got well. There was the novel to be revised ;
         a new edition of Ex Voto, with the mistakes corrected,
         to be prepared ; the book about Jean de Wespin, alias
         Tabachetti, to be written ; the Universal Review articles
         to be reconsidered and perhaps republished ; more sketches
         to be painted and more music to be composed. While
         lying ill and very feeble within a few days of the end,
         and not knowing whether it was to be the end or not,
         he repeated to me something like what he had said to
         Fuller Maitland in Palermo about " the pretty roundness "
        of his literary career :
              " I am much better to-day ; I don't feel at all as
        though I were going to die ; of course, it will be all
        wrong if I do get well, for there is my literary position
        to be considered. First I write Erewhon—that is my
        opening subject ; then, after modulating freely through
        all my other books and the music and so on, I return
        gracefully to my original key and publish Erewhon
        Revisited.     Obviously now is the proper moment to
        come to a full close, make my bow and retire ;
        but I believe I am getting well, after all. It's very

 klii              CHOOSING A HOUSE                      397
inartistic,
      »       but I cannot helpr it.    However, we shall Aet.'9°*66
see.
      I tried to comfort him by telling him that his recovery
 would give him an opportunity for a coda of considerable
 length on a tonic pedal. " You might make that very
 artistic indeed ; you know you always liked a tonic
 pedal."
       But it was not of much use, for in himself he believed
 he was dying, but he was not going to say so.
       One day he asked me to bring Solomon, that he might
 refresh his memory as to the harmonies of " With thee
 th' unsheltered moor I'd tread." It was almost the last
 thing he ever asked me to do for him. And I did not do
 it. I knew he was not equal to looking at the music, and
 next day he had forgotten all about it.
      Dr. Dudgeon told him that when he got well he
 must not go back to Clifford's Inn ; he must have a
 flat in a more airy situation. So he gave notice to quit
 Clifford's Inn ; and I gave notice to quit Staple Inn and
 was to look for a flat for myself, not too near his new
 flat, about as near as Staple Inn is to Clifford's Inm In
 the meantime, as my sister Lilian was going to Sweden
 for a holiday, it was arranged that she should lend us her
 flat at Hampstead during his convalescence. Next day
 it was :
      " Have you done anything about your flat ? "
      Then the water came in at his flat, and he could not
 play his piano for fear of disturbing the neighbours.
That was because Vernon Rendall had been to see him
and had complained of the inconveniences of his own flat.
So then he was to have a whole house and I was to have a
house too. Alfred brought his accounts from which it
appeared that his income was just over £1 100 a year and
he could afford a leasehold house at a low rent. Next
day it was :
      " Have you done anything about your house ? "
      So Alfred and I looked for houses, and then suddenly
it was to be a freehold. This was because Mr. W. H.
Gray, a solicitor whom he had met at the Phipson Beales'
and had known for many years, had been to see him and

         398               ALL HIS OLD VICES                       u»
  1902 told him he lived in a freehold house in Curzon Street,
Aet- 66 and found it a great comfort to have no landlord.
              " I don't know how he got hold of his bit of land," said
         Butler to me ; "I suspect he found it in some abstract
        of title."
              So Alfred and I looked for freeholds, and at last
         actually found one at Hampstead for which £1500 was
        asked, and Reginald Worsley went to inspect it and
        report. Then he said :
              " I am not behaving like a man who is going to die.
        I make my will, and tell my sisters all about it, and then
        here I am buying a freehold house at Hampstead ! "
             He was being attended only by Dr. Dudgeon, who
        was eighty-two and deaf, and Buder also was a little deaf.
        The question of a second opinion was started ; whereupon
        Butler said to Dudgeon :
             " I am perfectly satisfied with you ; but if you would
        like a second opinion, say so, and get any one you like."
             Dudgeon replied : " I am sure I know what is the
        matter with you, and I am perfectly satisfied with your
        progress ; but if you would like a second opinion, say so,
        and I'll get one in a moment."
             It sounds like a deadlock ; but next day, 6th June,
       Dr. Byres Moir was called in and said that the patient was
       suffering from pernicious anaemia. I had a private talk
       with him and told him how ill Butler had been in 1895,
       when he went to Greece and the Troad, and that he
       had never been really well since, and about his recent
       symptoms. All of which confirmed his view.
            So things went on. He lay there cheerful and very
       good, in no pain, but growing feebler every day. He
       complained that he did not want to smoke and that they
       would not let him have any wine ; but then, he admitted,
       he did not want any wine nor did he want to smoke.
            " I don't suppose," he said, " that I shall ever drink
       another glass of wine or smoke another cigarette."
            To comfort him, I said he must not be impatient and
       in a little time he would be returning to all his old vices.
       This made him smile but he was not convinced.
            Sometimes he complained of rheumatism, but, except

ZLII                        DEATH                     399
for that, he had no pain, though he had some discomfort 190*
arising, as it seemed to me, chiefly from weakness.        et"
     Presently there came a change for the worse, and on
the 1 8th June he had great difficulty in breathing. They
took him out of bed and put him into an armchair. I
was with him in the late afternoon and he seemed to be
asleep. When I got up to leave he opened his eyes
and said :
     " I'm going away soon. I'm to be left alone."
     I fetched his cousin Reginald Worsley and brought
him in with Alfred. He knew us. I said :
     " I've brought Reggie to tell you about your house.
He has been to Hampstead and seen it."
     "Well, and what do you think of it, Reggie?"
     " It's a very nice house, Sam ; it will do very well
for you."
     " Drains all right ? "
     " Yes, the drains are in very good order."
     " Very well ; then you'll send your report to Russell
Cooke."
     The next thing he said was that he knew he was
dying. He spoke with difficulty and was breathing
heavily.
     As I went away I told him I should come and see him
in the morning, but he replied that he did not suppose he
should be there in the morning.
     Miss Patten, the lady of the house, would not let me
leave. I stayed downstairs and presently Alfred came for
 me. We went into the room. He knew us and said it
 was a dark morning. It was really a very fine evening ;
 I think he supposed it was the next day. Then he
said :
     " Have you brought the cheque-book, Alfred ? "
     After that he lay in his chair and in a little while
 became unconscious. In half an hour, at about 8.40, he
 breathed for the last time.
     We met at Waterloo on the 21st June: his cousins
 Richard and Reginald Worsley, Amy Worsley (daughter
of Reginald), and Richard Burton Phillipson (who married

      4oo                     FUNERAL                         mi
1901  his niece Elsie Butler) —these were the members of the
      family ; Jason Smith, William Phipson Beale, Alfred
      Marks, Gaetano Meo, Miss Patten and Nurse Cawley,
      Charles Gogin, Richard Alexander Streatfeild, Russell
      Cooke, Edward Tanner (who used to collect the rents of
      his small houses near London), Alfred, and I ; counting
      the undertaker we were altogether seventeen.
           We found carriages at Woking and drove to the
      crematorium. The coffin was put on trestles, there
      was no pall, there were no flowers, and there was no
      service. We waited. Presently the doors were opened
      and the coffin was taken through and put into the
      furnace.
           Formerly he used to wish to be buried at Langar, and
      as I have said at the end of chap, xxiii. he wished to have
      on his tombstone the subject of the last of Handel's six
      grand fugues. But he left ofF wanting any tombstone or
      epitaph long before he died, and when cremation became
      practicable he determined to be cremated. The question
      then arose as to what was to be done with his ashes. At
     one time he wished Alfred and me to scatter them over
     the grass plot in Clifford's Inn. But my mother was
     cremated at Woking in 1900, and I saw her ashes and
     told him that they did not consist entirely of dust, but
     that there were pieces of calcined bone among them. I
     pointed out that we could not scatter calcined bones over
     Clifford's Inn garden ; we should have to borrow a spade
     and bury them properly, and this might easily lead to
     trouble. Besides I did not like putting his ashes where
     the laundresses came to " lose their cats," and the place
     would no doubt be sold for building purposes sooner or
     later, and      . He said I was making difficulties. Alfred
     then begged to have the ashes, saying he should like to
     keep them on his mantelpiece. Butler agreed to this and
     the subject dropped.
          After a time Alfred said one day : "Do you know,
     sir, I don't think I care to have your ashes after you are
     dead."
          Which landed us back in the original difficulty. So
     he directed by his will that his body should be burnt and

xlii                      ASHES                        401
the ashes not preserved. Accordingly, on the Saturday 190*
after the funeral Alfred and I returned to the crematorium
at Woking and received the ashes. We took them into
the garden and watched the attendant dig a grave among
the bushes. We dropped the ashes in, covered them over,
and left nothing to mark the spot.
    vol. 11                                        2D

                           CHAPTER XLIII
                                   i 902-1916
                        ON LIPS OF OTHER MEN
                                       1902
190* The following is a short statement of the main pro
     visions of Butler's will which is dated 31st May 1902 :
         He desires that his body shall be cremated and the ashes not
     preserved
         He appoints his cousin Reginald Edward Worsley and Richard
     Alexander Streatfeild his executors
         He bequeaths the following legacies
           To Alfred Emery Cathie ^2000 and until payment Alfred
              is to receive his usual weekly wages
           To Alfred E. Cathie his furniture (excluding his oak chest)
              his clothing and household effects watch and chain and
              plate (excluding two silver spoons with " S B " on them
              and excluding his drawings pictures and books) also his
              photographic cameras and materials and the negatives of
              Alfred and his family and any two negatives of the
            . testator that Alfred may select
           To Alfred E. Cathie and his aunt Ann Cathie his carpets
              rugs bedding sheets etc
           To Charles Gogin his picture " The Robing of Joseph
         i    by Pharaoh's Order " believed by the testator and by
         *    Charles Gogin to be an early work by Rembrandt
           To his sisters Mrs. Harriet Fanny Bridges and Miss Mary
              Butler £200 each
           To each of his executors ^200
           To each of the daughters of his sister-in-law Mrs. Henrietta
              Phillips Butler £100
           To John Taylor Bather ^100
           To Herbert Robert Clark £100
                                       40a



XLIII                        LEGACIES                                    403
       To Henry Festing Jones ^500 and all interest in musical ,901
         compositions upon which they had been jointly engaged
         and all copyrights etc in all works published in common
         by them                                                             I• v
       To William Russell Cooke £15 : 15 : o to purchase a
         memento
       To Jason Smith his picture of " Mr. Heatherley's Holiday "
         as a slight recognition of his kindness to the testator in
         the time of his poverty
       To his nephew Henry Thomas Butler his two big silver
         spoons marked " S B " which had belonged to Dr.
         Butler and his carved oak linen chest which was given
         him by Mrs. Henry Butler of the Stone House Kenil-
         worth
       He appoints R. A. Streatfeild his literary executor and
         bequeaths to him all unpublished manuscripts notes etc
         and all his copyrights
       He bequeaths all his pictures sketches and studies to his
         executors to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as
         they may think best the proceeds (if any) to fall into
         residue
       To Charles Gogin for life and after his death to his wife
         Alma Gogin during her widowhood an annuity of /ioo
       He Mrs
       To        Ann
           devises  hisCathie
                        freehold
                               an estate
                                  annuityat of £1 a week
                                             Watford    Gap for     life
                                                               Northamp
         tonshire upon trust for Mrs. Henrietta Phillips Butler
         for life with remainder to her son Henry Thomas Butler
         absolutely
           directs that
       He devises  and bequeaths
                        all duties are
                                    his to
                                        residuary   out oftohishisestate
                                           be paid estate            nephew
         Henry Thomas Butler absolutely
     The entry in the register gives as the cause of Butler's
death " Intestinal catarrh, two months : pernicious
anaemia, one month : certified by R. E. Dudgeon, M.D."
This, I know, does not agree with what Dr. Byres Moir
told me. Doctors proverbially disagree, and we have not
the information necessary to enable us to decide between
them.
     After Butler's death my sister Lilian and I agreed to
start housekeeping together. I had already given up my
rooms in Staple Inn, she gave up her flat at Hampstead,
and, following Butler's idea of living on one's own free
hold, we bought the house and garden 120 Maida Vale.

     404                 120 MAIDA VALE                      run
1902 In that house I have written this book. And in the
     garden I have a campanula given me by a friend ; it is
     descended from one that grew in the garden of Charles
     Darwin at Down. I also have Apium graveolens grown
     from seed given me by the gardener of Lincoln's Inn
     Fields, who took it from the plants which came up from
     the seed Butler procured at Selinunte. I also have wild
     yellow auriculas—the sort which we used to find growing
     on the Alps. I have no doubt that those I have are
     descendants of some which Butler brought back from the
     Canton Ticino and gave to his father ; mine were sent to
     me from Wilderhope by Mrs. Bridges and Miss Butler.
     Butler would sometimes bring back a few auricula blossoms
     after staying at Shrewsbury, just as he would sometimes
     bring back a few cowslips which we picked on our Sunday
     walks, and keep them in water in his rooms. But he did
     not altogether approve ; it saddened him to watch them
     gradually decomposing, and he preferred, if he was to
     have flowers in his rooms, to see them in pots with their
     roots. His view was that plants have limbs and organs
     as we have, and that it is a shame to cut them about ;
     it is especially cruel to mutilate a plant at the moment
     when it is laying the foundations of the next generation.
     This is why there were no flowers at his funeral. It was
     only his very great love of auriculas, cowslips, and, I
     should add, fritillaries that excused him for being so
     inconsistent as to ill-treat them. " Logic and consistency,"
     as he says somewhere, " are luxuries for the gods and the
     lower animals."
         I went to Shrewsbury from the 30th June to the 2nd
     July and stayed at Wilderhope with Mrs. Bridges and
     Miss Butler. The last time I had been there was some
     years before when I went with Butler for a week-end.
     On the Sunday morning after breakfast, Mrs. Bridges
     began :
         "You know, Sam, we don't wish you to think that
     we expect you to go to church. We know you and Mr.
     Jones always go into the country on Sunday for a walk,
     and we want you to try and think you can do just as you
     would wish. We shall go to church ; and, if you think

xliii                         WILDERHOPE                                     40$
you would like to come with us, you would find it a >9°2
 bright little service ; that I can promise you. And the
music is good. Or, there is St. So-and-so's where you
 would have a sermon from the vicar. But of course you
 can go into the country if you think you would prefer
 it, and we shall not be in the least offended. All we
 wish is that you should try and understand that we want
 you to think you are free to try and do exactly as you
 think you would like" . . .
      This rambled on like a first movement by Beethoven ;
 the two skilfully contrasted themes of Church and Country-
 walk were worked out and developed, and led to a coda
which threatened to assume considerable dimensions. In
 imitation of the master, Mrs. Bridges introduced " points
of independent interest, variety of modulation and new
treatment of the themes of the movement being alike
resorted to, to keep up the interest until the last." 1
Presently she paused ; not that she had exhausted her
themes or herself, but she paused ; and I interpolated :
      " Suppose we toss up ? "
      It had the effect of silencing Mrs. Bridges.
     " Come away ! " said Butler sternly.
     Thus we got off for our walk. But he was quite
cross with me. He said I had disgraced myself and
should never be invited to Wilderhope again. I refrained
from saying that I might survive such a punishment.
And it amused me afterwards to know that I was asked
again ; that is, he was asked to bring me, but, like
Ernest, he had formed a theory and did not tell me of
the invitations ; I only found out about them indirectly.
It happened, therefore, that the next time I went to
Wilderhope was in response to a direct invitation, after
his death.
     I had written to Miss Butler telling her about his
illness, how much out of health he had been for years,
and what the doctors had said ; and I added that, if Dr.
Byres Moir was right, the pernicious anaemia might per
haps have been the cause of the attacks of giddiness of
which he used to complain so long ago as 1895, when he
        1 Grove't Dictionary of Music and Musicians (Ed. 1904), Art. "Coda."

     4o6                  IMMORTALITY                        xuu
1901 was working too hard at the Odyssey. She replied thanking
     me for my letter, and saying that she had not told Mrs.
     Bridges about the giddiness, fearing it might make her
     nervous about herself, because Mrs. Bridges sometimes
     had attacks of giddiness. And she begged me not to
     allude to my letter, as she had not mentioned it to her
     sister, whose health was not good, and more to a similar
     effect.
          Almost the first thing Mrs. Bridges did when I arrived
     was to take me aside and tell me confidentially that Miss
     Butler was very delicate, far from well, and very full of
     nerves in some ways ; I must be careful in speaking to
     her about Sam's illness lest I should make her uneasy and
     nervous about herself. She added that her sister did not
     sleep easily, and that many things were not good for her
     which she (Mrs. Bridges) could bear and liked to hear.
     This was so like what Miss Butler had written to me
     about Mrs. Bridges that I re-read her letter, and was
     startled to find that even the actual words were identical.
          Presently Miss Butler took me aside and talked about
     her brother, asking questions about his illness and death.
     And now perhaps he saw things more clearly than he had
     seen them during his life—perhaps he now understood
     his father better. She then asked me point-blank and
     rather suddenly whether he had not, after all, come to
     believe in immortality. I had no doubt that she was
     thinking of the immortality of the fiddle rather than of
     the immortality of the tune, and could only say that her
     brother's opinion on that point had remained unaltered
     up to the last moment of his life. She accepted my reply
     as though it were what she had expected, and continued to
     talk. She admitted that life was an enigma, full of con
     tradictions and difficulties. " But if," and here her eyes
     filled with tears as she raised them towards the ceiling,
     and her voice trembled as she continued, " if we believe
     that Jesus died and rose again, everything becomes quite
     simple."
          I did not think it did ; but I felt sorry for the poor
     woman, and cast about in my mind in search of some
     drop of comfort to offer her. All I could find to say

 xuii                       IRONY                        407
 was that when I left Sam a few hours before his death, 190*
 promising to come and see him in the morning, he had
 replied that he did not suppose he would be there in the
 morning. This, I suggested, might be taken to mean
 that he contemplated being somewhere else. She was
 not much impressed by my feeble bit of sophistry, and
 showed an inclination to continue talking about her
own faith as though she had lost all interest in her
brother's views.
     Presently we spoke of his last book, Erewhon Revisited,
 which she said she had not read. I understood her to
say that, like her father, she had read none of her brother's
books ; and, again, like her father, she saw nothing to be
ashamed of in this. I said that I thought it a pity she
should not have read, for instance, the passage in chapter v.
of Erewhon Revisited when Mr. Higgs meets George and
knows that he is his son, but George does not know that
Mr. Higgs is his father ; or that other beautiful passage
in chapter xxv. when they part.
     " No," she said, " no : I hate irony," and she em
phasised " hate " with so much vicious determination that
I saw it would be useless to tell her that these passages
are free from any trace of irony.
     When we rejoined Mrs. Bridges the conversation
turned on the subject of portraits of Sam, and especially
the reproduction he had given them of Gogin's portrait
of him which faces the opening of chapter xxxv. of this
Memoir. They said they were much pleased with the
reproduction. It was a capital likeness. I asked if they
would care to see Gogin's original picture.
     " Oh no, we should not like to see it at all ; indeed
not."
     " But you think your reproduction of it very like
him?"
     "Yes; but we did not think so till we touched it.
It is now very like him ; but we considered it very bad
before we touched it. We do not know what was wrong
with it, but there seemed to be something about the head
and the hair. It was not like him. But now that we
have touched it, it is quite good, and we are both so very

     4o8                        TOUCHING                              xu»
1902 pleased to have it. But we could not bear to see the
     picture."
          Of course I told Gogin, and he wrote :
         I do so like what you told me about Mrs. Bridges and the
     photograph. It is curious what a trifle may turn a horror into
     a perfect portrait. Did she touch up the copy herself or was it
     done by a local photographic genius ? Well, you and I perhaps
     flatter ourselves we feel things, but, with all our experience, I am
     afraid we have not reached that insight and subtlety of appreciation
     which lift their possessor quite above the plane of human artists.
          Thinking that Mrs. Bridges and Miss Butler might
     wish to see their brother's rooms in Clifford's Inn before
     they were dismantled, which had to be done by the 29th
     September, I said that, if they were coming to London, or
     if either was coming, I should be happy to meet them and
     show them over. And they might like to be introduced
     to the lady who kept the Nursing Home in St. John's
     Wood, and to see the room in which he died. This was
     nearly as bad as the suggestion that they should see
     Gogin's picture. They could not think of such a thing.
          Accordingly, after I returned to town, I received a
     letter from Mrs. Bridges saying that she was coming to
     London and would I meet her at Clifford's Inn on the
     22nd July. Of course I complied. She did not stay
     long, and I could not induce her to come on and see my
     rooms in Staple Inn. Her visit was followed on the 30th
     by a similar visit from Miss Butler. I met her at Clifford's
     Inn and showed her everything. Afterwards she came
     on to see my rooms. Here she sat in the chair her
     brother used to sit in, and played with the brass bowl
     which he used to play with and which my brother Edward
     brought from India. She also called at the Nursing
     Home in St. John's Wood, and saw over the house and
     went into the room in which Butler died.
          I had told Mrs. Bridges and Miss Butler that their
     brother had, and that it was still hanging in his rooms, a
     black and white water-colour portrait of himself made by
     Thomas Sadler from a faded photograph taken when he
    was about twenty-three, of which they had a print. A
    reproduction faces chapter iv. ante. I promised to show

 zliii                    UNANIMITY                        409
  them Sadler's drawing if and when they came to their «9°*
 brother's rooms. As soon as they saw it they exclaimed :
       " Oh ! then it is an enlargement ? "
       I said, " Well, it's larger than the photograph, but it
  is not enlarged by photography. This is a copy enlarged
  and painted by hand."
       They said, " Oh ! but what a pity ! Now, why wasn't
  it enlarged by photography and then touched ? That
  would have been so much better. It is not at all like
 Sam. Why, it's more like his cousin, George Lloyd."
       Nevertheless, they thought they had better have it as
 a family portrait, and it was sent to Wilderhope.
       When I say "they" said so-and-so I mean that first
 Mrs. Bridges said it, and when Miss Butler came she
 repeated what her sister had said. Their unanimity in
 this matter of Sadler's portrait was like their unanimity
 when they spoke about their healths ; but I could not
 determine in either case whether it was the result of a
 pre-arranged scheme or an effect of their having lived so
 much together. I incline to think that it was due to the
 latter cause, and that Butler had noticed something of the
 kind so long ago as when he was writing The Way of All
Flesh. In those early days, no doubt, it was less pro
nounced, especially while Mrs. Bridges was living at
Ventnor ; but I suppose it deepened and grew after she
joined her father and sister at Shrewsbury, and it became
very obvious after the death of Canon Butler. I imagine
that during the progress of the novel a prophetic instinct
suggested to Butler the propriety of imitating the conjurer
who rolls two rabbits into one, and that he therefore
rolled his two sisters together into one indivisible Charlotte
Pontifex.
      In November Ingroja wrote me that the Communal
Council of Calatafimi had resolved by acclamation that
the street leading from the Nuovo Mercato towards
Segesta should be called "Via Samuel Butler, thus
honouring a great man's memory, handing down his
name to posterity, and doing homage to the friendly
English nation." The name of the hotel at Calatafimi

       4io                  BUTLER'S MSS.                       xmi
1901-3 wa9 also changed from Albergo Centrale to Albergo
       Samuel Butler. The street is still ( 1 9 1 1 ) called Via
       Samuel Butler ; but when I was at Calatafimi in 1908
       the hotel had been closed in consequence of the death
       of Don Paolo, and poor old Donna Maria was selling
       newspapers. She died a year later.
                                    1903
            In the spring of this year I went to Italy and Sicily,
       taking with me some of Butler's sketches and the MSS.
       of three of his books, viz. Ex Voto, The Odyssey rendered
       into English Prose, and The Authoress of the Odyssey. I
       went to Casale-Monferrato, and gave to the Avvocato
       Negri an oil sketch made by Butler in 1871 from the
       steps of the church on the Sacro Monte at Varallo-Sesia,
       showing the mountains as one looks towards Monte Rosa.
       I chose this sketch for him because he knows well both
       the mountains and the Sacro Monte. 1 gave Cesare
       Coppo an oil sketch of Hendon made by Butler, and I
      chose this for him because it is an English view, and he
      sometimes says that the happiest time in his life was when
      he was in England.
           I went next to Varallo-Sesia and gave to the Municipio
       the MS. of Ex Voto and an oil sketch made by Butler in
       1 871 of the church on the Sacro Monte, historically
       interesting because it shows the building as it was before
       the new facciata was built. After the presentation I was
       entertained at dinner by the Municipio.
           1 then went to Milan where I saw the painter Cavaliere
       Angelo Morbelli and his family, and gave them the
       negatives of several photographs Butler had taken of the
       children playing in the garden of their country house.
            Then I went to Messina where I saw Peppino Pagoto
      and gave him a card-case of Butler's and a sketch he made
       on Monte Erice.
           At Catania I saw Giovanni Platania and gave him a
       negative of himself in the railway station at Catania, taken
       by Butler, and also the MS. of The Odyssey rendered into
      English Prose for the Accademia de' Zelanti of Aci-Reale
      of which he was at the time acting as secretary.

xliii         DEATH OF HANS FAESCH                       411
      At Trapani I gave to the Municipio the MS. of The «9°3-4
Authoress of the Odyssey, and I was entertained at" luncheon
by the Sindaco and the Municipio.
      On the way I stayed at Calatafimi and saw Ingroja,
and at all the places where I stopped I saw and talked
with Butler's friends and told them of his last illness
and death.
      In August, Remi Faesch, who was in London in a
bank, came one morning to see me with a telegram he had
received from Peter Hauff, in the Shan States, announcing
the death of his brother Hans on 5th August, aged 32.
The people of Basel publish a Basler Jahrbuch which
comes out from time to time and contains records of the
lives of those of their citizens who distinguish themselves
in any way. In the volume for 1906 the third article
contains an account of Hans Faesch, giving particulars of
his life and many extracts from his letters home. It is
entitled " Erlebnisse eines Basler Kaufmanns in Laos
(Indo- China). Autobiographische Skizzen von Hans
Rudolf Fasch." Madame Faesch gave me a separate copy
of this article, which I gave to the British Museum where
it is indexed under Hans's name.
      It had been an understood thing that Gogin, who
painted Butler's portrait in 1896, should paint mine. He
was also to paint his own. Butler would have liked to
possess a gallery of portraits of himself and his friends
all painted by Gogin, but during his lifetime only his
own portrait was made. In the course of 1903 Gogin
painted mine, I going to Brighton where he was then
living and sitting to him. Emery Walker has reproduced
the picture and it appears at the opening of this chapter.
I am aware that it is considered in doubtful taste for an
authorthat
trust        these volumes
          to include a portrait
                            do not
                                of contain
                                   himself any morebook
                                            in his        ; I t
                                                      serious
breach of taste than this.
                             1904
     Thinking that Butler's friends in England ought to
hear what I had done and how I had been received in
North Italy and Sicily in 1903, especially as those to

     4i2                  DR. DUDGEON                        xuu
1904 whom I gave the MSS. were anxious that their gratitude
     for the gifts should be known, I wrote an account of
     my journey: Diary of a Journey through North Italy to
     Sicily undertaken in the Spring of 1903 for the purpose of
     leaving the MSS. of three books by Samuel Butler at Varallo-
     Sesia, Aci-Reale> and Trapani. The frontispiece of this
     pamphlet is a reproduction of Gogin's portrait of
     Butler.
          Among Butler's friends to whom I sent a copy of my
     Diary of a Journey was Dr. Dudgeon.             In reply I
     received a letter from his daughter saying that he had
     been in bed for three weeks, that the doctors thought it
     impossible he could recover, and that he would be glad to
     see me. I went, and we talked about Butler. He said
     that no one had influenced him so much. I assured him
     that he also had had a great influence on Butler. His
     house on Carlton Hill was close to mine in Maida Vale,
     and I went almost every day and had many conversations
     with him until near his end when he became too feeble to
     see any one. I always found him perfectly happy and
     cheerful and not in any pain, except when they dressed his
     blisters. He liked my coming because he knew no one
     else to whom he could talk about Butler. I reminded
     him of how Butler used to prescribe homoeopathic
     medicines for himself, how he used to take aconite out of
     a little botde when he had a cold, and how he used to
     insist on my taking some too, whether I had a cold or
     not—" It can't do you any harm," he used to say—and
     how he made me go and consult Dudgeon every now and
    then when he thought I appeared to be out of sorts.
         " Well," said Dudgeon, " I hope he was right and that
    the medicines did not do you any harm."
         " Oh no," I replied ; " that was one reason why he
    became a homoeopath. He used to say that if you did
    him no good at all events you did not chuck him about
    with your medicines as the allopaths did with theirs."
         At one of our last interviews he said : " The best
    thing I can do now is to go to Sam ; I am no use lying
    here like this, and I can never get well."
         I said : " We must all go some day, you know, but

xuii             ULTSSES PERFORMED                              413
there is no occasion to be in a hurry about it. Sam 1904-5
won't mind waiting for us."
     He smiled and said : " Ah well, 1 think his views
about meeting again were very much the same as mine.
For my part I have never been able to form any clear idea
of what people mean when they talk of immortality."
     I told him that in any other sense except that which
is intended in the sonnet " Not on sad Stygian shore "
Sam used to say that immortality was for him unthink
able ; and Dudgeon was much comforted.
     He died on the 8th September, aged 84. I went to
his funeral at Golder's Green where he was cremated on
the 1 2th.
                               1905
     On 3rd April Ulysses was sung through at 32
Clanricarde Gardens, the residence of Mr. H. J. T.
Wood. The solos were taken by Miss Betty Booker
(soprano), Miss Grainger Kerr (contralto), Mr. R. A.
Streatfeild (tenor), and Mr. Francis Harford (bass), Mr.
Hurlstone accompanied on the piano, and Mr. Wood
conducted. This performance was practicable because the
pianoforte score of the oratorio had been published in
the preceding October by Weekes & Co. It contains
this
    Note.—At the time of his death, 18 June, 1902, Samuel Butler
had completed his part of Ulysses. Since then I have finished my
share and am now able to fulfil one of his last wishes by publishing
the work. I am sure he would have approved of my taking this
opportunity to acknowledge the great assistance given to us both
by our friend Mr. S. P. Waddington. September 1904, H. F. J.
     For some months after my sister and I had moved to
Maida Vale Alfred came there daily, just as he used to
go to Clifford's Inn ; but presently he made up his mind
to start in business and, in the spring of 1905, bought a
small general shop in Canal Road, Mile End. This did
not use up more than about £100 of his legacy ; the rest
was invested, and he, with his wife and his three children,
continued to live on the profits of the shop and the
dividends of the investments.

        414                     LANGAR                         ZLIII
1905-6       In September 1905 Ingroja died at his villa near
        Calatafimi. He was a man who would have made a
        considerable mark if his intelligence and his energies had
        not been confined to such a small place as Calatafimi.
                                   1906
             I had long wanted to see Langar and in the autumn
        wrote to the rector, the Rev. D. F. Wright, to propose
        a visit. He replied that I should be welcome. I went
        on 6th November 1906. Mr. Wright met me at Barn-
        stone station and drove me to Langar. He told me that
        he was of the family of Wright of Derby. He showed
        me the church and in the church-yard the tombstone to
       Butler's brother, William Butler, who died 4th January
        1839, aged six months, his father and mother "sorrowing
        but not with bitterness." I thought of how, if Butler
       was present when people were talking of the earliest events
       they could remember, his contribution usually was that
       he remembered seeing the dead body of his brother
       William lying naked on a bed, Butler being at the time
       three years and two months old. And I thought of how
       he would then assume a wistful expression, cast up his
       eyes and exclaim :
            " My poor little brother William ! The only one of
       my relations with whom I never quarrelled."
            The pews used to be high, all of carved oak ; Canon
       Butler pulled them down when he restored the church
       (ante, I. Il6), and Mr. Wright regretted that the oak
       was not used for panelling the church. I looked for
       a brass or stone to Canon Butler, but there was none.
       I half remember having heard that there is a stained-glass
       window in some church in Shrewsbury, put up in his
       memory by " two ladies of this town," or something of
       that kind, but 1 have never seen it.
            Mr. Wright had to consult with his churchwardens
       about altering the paths and grass, and I went in to tea
       with Mrs. Wright in the drawing-room, the scene of
       Butler's picture " Family Prayers.' The arch and the
       window beyond it, shown in the picture, were additions

 xLin                  BARNARD'S INN                        415
 made to the rectory house by Canon Butler ; in the real 19°*
room there are behind the row of servants two windows
in the wall on which Butler has made the clock and the
landscapes throw their contradictory shadows. I went
round the garden with Mrs. Wright and found the view
of which Butler made a sketch. I gave the sketch to his
nephew Harry Butler who, as a boy, used to go to Langar
and remembered it. It shows the grass paths and the
door in the wall which Ernest sees when he returns to
Battersby to his mother's death-bed {The Way of All
Flesh, ch. lxxxiii.) :
    Ernest found himself looking hard against- the blue door at
the bottom of the garden to see if there was rain falling, as he
had been used to look when he was a child doing lessons with
his father.
     This passage is, of course, a personal reminiscence.
And so it is earlier in the same chapter when Ernest is
being driven from the station, and Battersby church
tower draws near and he sees the rectory on the top of
the hill and throws himself back in the carriage and
covers his face with his hands.
     When I went to live in Staple Inn, that part of
Barnard's Inn in which my previous chambers were
situated was demolished, but other parts, including the
Hall, were left standing. Mr. Dolmetsch used to give
concerts in the Hall, and Butler and I went to some of
them. One evening we arrived too early and spent the
time in visiting my old rooms. The doors were off, the
walls were bare, and the boards were up. We picked
our perilous way across the rafters, through the sitting-
room into the bed-room and the kitchen. And Butler's
eyes filled with tears. It was, I admit, a melancholy
occasion, but it surprised me that he should be so deeply
affected. It was the first time I had observed how
peculiarly susceptible he was to those emotions which we
all experience in some degree on returning to a place after
an interval during which changes have occurred in the
place or in ourselves. There are many indications of
this in his writings, and when I was helping to correct the

      4i6                    MR. GREGORY                             XLI1I
1906 proofs of The Way of All Flesh the passages referred to
      above reminded me of our visit to the ruins of Barnard's
      Inn.
           Presently Mr. Wright came back from his meeting.
      He showed me over the house and took me into the
     room in which Butler was born. I knew which it was
      because Butler made this note :
          I was born in what was afterwards the best spare room, i.e.
     the westernmost first-floor room on the left as you look, towards
     the house. The room which my brother and I had, and which
      was always called " the boys' room," was the one next to this
      with nothing but a thin partition between the two, and two
      windows looking north.
           We went downstairs and sat in the study, and he
     pointed out two curious depressions on the mantelpiece.
      He said that Mr. Gregory, a former rector, used to stand
     in front of the fire, leaning against the mantelpiece, and
     that he made these marks by constantly rubbing his fore
     head against the painted wood or plaster. In the garden
      Mrs. Wright had shown me the place where Mr. Gregory's
     observatory used to stand, and told me that Canon Buder
     pulled it down and used the material in restoring the
     church.
                        Mr. Gregory at Langar
         He was my father's predecessor but one, and held the living
     from about 1 780-1 820. He used to ride on horseback to London,
     and the fields near Mr. Harrison's farm are still called the London
     Fields because he so styled them. He was an astronomer ; I can
     just remember his observatory being pulled down to give place to
     my father's coach-house. He built two little steps against the
     wall nearly opposite our study window, from which to watch the
     sunset over the garden wall. Mr. Isaac Hall told me that he
     saw him standing on these steps watching the sunset a day or
     two before he died. As it was going down he said :
                      Good-bye, Sun ; Good-bye, Sun—
         And then went in —never to come out again.
          Butler used this note in telling of the death of old
     John Pontifex in The Way of All Flesh.

  xliii                   WALL-PAPER                             417
       While in the house I thought of the bees going up 1906-8
  and down the paper in the drawing-room at Battersby :
                                  Bees
      The paper at Langar was at one time of a pattern full of
  roses red and white, or camelias, I forget which. I have seen the
  bees come in on a summer's afternoon and try flower after flower
 of them, going from sofa to ceiling and then down the next row.
 They found it impossible in the presence of so many of the
 associated ideas to believe in the absence of the one they set most
 store by—honey.
       I looked for this paper; of course it was not there,
 but Mr. Wright told me that when he came, in 1903,
 the drawing-room had been repapered and he remembered
 seeing roses on some of the old papers that were stripped
 from the walls. His recollection of the pattern was that
 it was not rows of roses up and down but rather a border
 of roses along the skirting, up the corners, and along
 under the ceiling. Butler did not paper the room with it
 in his picture, his reason being, I imagine, that he felt
 unequal to it. Mr. Wright also remembered that when
 he came the roof was still full of bees, and they had got
rid of them.
                                1908
      Professor Marcus Hartog, in a conversation with
me, suggested that there should be an Erewhon dinner.
Having consulted Streatfeild, Desmond MacCarthy, Emery
Walker and others, I prepared a list of all who, we
thought, were interested in Butler. We fixed the 16th
July for the dinner so as to suit Marcus Hartog, arranged
preliminaries with the manager of Pagan i's, and sent out
reply-postcards :
                     The Erewhon Dinner
     A few admirers of Erewhon and its author intend to dine
together at 7.30 p.m. on Thursday 16th July at Pagani's
Restaurant, Great Portland Street. If you can come you will be
welcome. Kindly sign and return the annexed card so that
arrangements may be made accordingly. The price of the dinner
     VOL. II                                              2 E

       s
    /
     418             FIRST EREWHON DINNER                           run
 08 will not exceed 5/- exclusive of drinks and there will be two menus
      (a) ordinary (b) vegetarian. Evening dress optional.
           Mr. Emery Walker generously prepared for the menu
      a reproduction of the portrait which Butler painted of
      himself in 1878 —the one he gave to me. It is repro
      duced as the frontispiece to vol. I. of this Memoir.
      Under the portrait on the menu were printed these
     words :
          Above all things, let no unwary reader do me the injustice of
     believing in me. In that I write at all I am among the damned.
     If he must believe in anything, let him believe in the music of
     Handel, the painting of Giovanni Bellini, and in the thirteenth
     chapter of St. Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians. [Life and
     Habit, close of chap, ii.)
           There were about thirty-two persons present. I was
     in the chair, with Professor Hartog on my right and Julius
     Bertram, who knew Miss Savage, on my left. I put
     Julius Bertram next to me partly because he was a Member
     of Parliament, and I wanted him to instruct me in the
     duties of a chairman, of which I knew nothing. After
     dinner I rose and said :
           " Gentlemen, The King."
           The company rose and we drank the health of His
      Majesty. In a few moments I rose again and delivered
      a speech which I had prepared. I do not suppose I said
      all I had intended to say, but this resume will give an idea
      of the spirit which we intended should prevail at these
     dinners.
:
           Gentlemen : When my friend Professor Marcus Hartog
      suggested that we should have this dinner—for the proposal came
      from him—he said :
           " I do not know what Butler himself would have thought
 j    of it?"
           And I replied : " I think I can tell you. He would have
      been very much pleased. And especially pleased because he could
¦     not himself be present in a material sense."
           We know Butler's views about immortality—that it is the
  -    living in the thoughts and deeds of other men ; and in that sense
       he is present among us now. But we must be careful that no
       future meeting shall degenerate into anything like a religious

     <¦'         -•                   I     ¦••¦¦¦'     '    '     ;  •'        .?¦
mu             SECOND EREWHON DINNER                                      419
celebration. We must so conduct ourselves that if he were to 1908-9
return in a material sense to this Erewhon of ours he would never
       us doing
find that
me                   what Mr.
            the company          Higgslike
                              would        found    themparticulars
                                               to hear     doing when about he        .¦
returned to the real Erewhon. That is why those words from
Life and Habit are printed on the menu under his portrait which
his friend Mr. Emery Walker has kindly reproduced for us.
     I have written to about twenty Italians and Sicilians telling
 presentofin this
 them         spiritdinner.
                     and Dionigi
                              TheyNegri,
                                     have of      replied promising
                                             allVarallo-Sesia,  has senttousbea {
 pot of honey made by Bertoli's bees from the flowers of Monte
 Rosa. We may be sure that all his friends out there are now
thinking of Samuel
Memory                   Butler.
                us and that they are
                                   Let
                                     all us  do the asame.
                                         drinking      glass of wine to The      /
      Whereupon the guests stood up and in silence we
drank to his memory.
      Speeches were made by Professor Hartog, Professor
G. S. Sale who, having retired from the University of
Dunedin, was living in London, and by Butler's fellow art-
student, Mr. H. R. Robertson. Some one came and told
                                                                                   /
Alfred ; so I told them all about him, and assured them
that he would be much pleased to hear that they had
asked after him. After this Streatfeild said a few words                           '.
and we separated.
                                   1909
     On July 15 th we had the second Erewhon dinner at
Pagani's, that date being fixed to suit the convenience of
Mr. George Bernard Shaw. There were about fifty-three
persons present, including Alfred ; and Dionigi Negri
sent some more of Bertoli's honey. The Rev. Canon
M'Cormick said grace.
     I proposed The King, followed by The Memory of
Samuel Butler. Among those who spoke were Canon
M'Cormick, who told some anecdotes of Butler at
Cambridge, including the mishap to the Johnian boat when
Butler was steering it in 1857 (ante, I. 52) ; Mr. John H.
Baker, who was in New Zealand with Butler, and who
told us how he had accompanied him on the journey which
is described as the entry into Erewhon, and about his
pathetic meeting with Butler in 1902, forty years later, in

                     THIRD EREWHON DINNER
1909-10 Rome (ante, p. 391); Mr. H. R. Robertson, Professor
         Marcus Hartog, and Bernard Shaw.
                                    1910
             In February I read a paper on Butler before the
         British Association of Homoeopathy at 43 Russell Square,
        W.C. The paper was practically the obituary article
        which I had written for The Eagle, December 1902,
        revised, and with references to homoeopathy inserted.
        Some of Butler's music was performed by Miss Grainger
        Kerr, Mr. R. A. Streatfeild, Mr. J. A. Fuller Mat-
        land, and Mr. H. J. T. Wood (the Secretary of the
        Association).
             On 14th July the third Erewhon dinner took place
        at Pagani's. The date was fixed to suit the convenience
        of Mr. Augustine Birrell. There were about fifty- eight
        persons present, and Dionigi Negri sent some more of
        Bertoli's honey. After the toasts of The King and The
        Memory of Samuel Butler, speeches were made by Marcus
        Hartog ; by Mr. (afterwards Sir) Johnston Forbes
        Robertson, to whom, when he was a boy, Butler gave a
        copy of Erewhon, not for him to read but for him to take
        home to his father and mother ; by Richard Whiteing,
        who said we were not digging out a forgotten reputation,
        we were building up and creating a new reputation ; and
        by Bernard Shaw, who reminded us that Butler laid great
        stress upon the importance of money, poverty was a
        crime ; that he also laid great stress on the importance of
       luck, to be unlucky was a crime. The real reason (he
        said) why Butler was unknown during his lifetime was
        that he was always showing wherein accepted people were
        wrong, so that they were afraid of openly approving of
       him lest he should turn and rend them. Butler, he said,
        would not play at being a lion, and these dinners were
        only possible because he could not be present in person
        and tell us wherein we were wrong to hold them. Mr.
        H. R. Robertson and Dr. Nairn also spoke. I then
        called on Birrell, who told us about his meeting with
        Butler at Miss Edith Sichel's.

  xliii           A KALENDAR FOR LADS                       \i\
        On 1 6th November I read a paper on Butler before 1910
  the Historical Society of St John's College, Cambridge.
  The paper was founded upon my previous address,
  with the omission of the homoeopathy and the insertion
  of recollections of school and college days. The His
  torical Society met in the combination room of the college,
 and the Master (Mr. R. F. Scott), who was also Vice-
  Chancellor of the University, was in the chair. A vote of
  thanks was proposed by Professor William Bateson, F.R.S.
       In the autumn Mr. Jason Smith died, and his daughter
 consulted me about Butler's picture, " Mr. Heatherley's
 Holiday," which, since 1902, had been hanging in her
 father's dining-room in Lancaster Gate. I spoke to Sir
 Charles Holroyd, Director of the National Gallery, about
 it. Eventually Mr. Jason Smith's representatives gave
 the picture to the nation, and it was hung in the National
Gallery of British Art.
      In December I received from Miss Butler A Kalendar
for Lads (A. R. Mowbray & Co., Ltd., 28 Margaret Street,
Oxford Circus, London, W. and 9 High Street, Oxford).
 It is dedicated to Patrick Henry Cecil Butler, the son of
Butler's nephew, Harry Butler. There is a note thank
ing various publishers for leave to use extracts from works
issued by them, and this note is dated Shrewsbury, 19 10,
and signed with Miss Butler's initials, but the full name
of the compiler is nowhere given. On the back of this
note occurs the following :
                      NEMO NISI CHRISTUS*
               AND
                 THE
                   FORMERLY
                     MOTTO
              SOMETIME BISHOP
                            ADOPTED
                             HEAD
                              OFSCHOOL
                                 LICHFIELD
                                  MASTER
                                     BY SAMUEL
                                            OF SHREWSBURY
                                              AND COVENTRY,
                                                  BUTLER,
                           * None tave Christ.
      A text from the Bible is allotted to each day, and is
followed by a quotation in verse or in prose, sometimes
more than one. They are perhaps not all of them,
strictly speaking, quotations, for some are signed
M. B. and others are unsigned ; but they are chosen and
placed so as to emphasise the teaching of the text, thus :

422                WEARY AND LONG
                              January
    4. They will go from strength to strength.—Ps. lxxxiv. 7.
                     Good—Better—Best,
                     Never let it rest,
                     Till your Good is Better,
                     And your Better, Best.
                                June
                                                            1
    21. Even Christ pleased not Himself.—Rom. xv. 3.
    Choose, lads, which shall it be—self-will, self-conceit, self-
indulgence ; or the poet's " self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-
control."                                                     M. B.
                               August
     20. The soul of the people was much discouraged because of
the way.—Num. xxi. 4.
     A wise traveller goeth on cheerily through fair weather and
through foul,
     He knoweth that his journey must be sped, so he carries his
sunshine with him.                                     M. Tupper.
                Be the day weary or be the day long
                At last it ringeth to Evensong.
      In thanking Miss Butler for her present I was careful
not to say that I had met with " Be the day weary " etc.
in Ernest's bed-room at Battersby (chap, lxxxiii.), or to
let her suspect that I remembered his comment :
     " There's not enough difference between ' weary ' and ' long '
 to warrant an 'or ' " he said, " but I suppose it's all right."
      I was probably intended to recognise her in the
initials M. B. My recollection is that I taxed her with
having composed also some of the unsigned selections,
 and that she treated this part of my letter with ostenta
tious silence. I remember especially thinking that she
composed the verse " Good — Better — Best," but I
repeated it recently to a friend, who assured me that he
was familiar with it as an old rhyme ; so I daresay she
also selected the others.

xu«i              JUST AND UNJUST                             423
     This incident, settling that a supposed author was 1910
merely a selector, reminded me of a similar incident
which also occurred recently about a passage in one of
Miss Savage's letters. In the postscript of her letter to
Butler of the 13th August 1881 (ante, I. 359) she enclosed
some scraps of conversation at her club. This is the
final one :
    Mrs. A. hears from her friend of the good fortune of some
bad people (dissenters probably) and exclaims: "Dear, dear;
to think now of their having such good luck ! " Her friend
says: "Well, well, it rains alike on the just as well as the
unjust." I, smarting with a sense of wrong, say from the other
end of the room : " It rains more on the just, for the unjust take
the umbrellas." I hope you will laugh at my little joke. They
did not.
     In his reply Butler wrote : " I liked your plum about
the umbrellas. I must try and get it in somewhere."
He was writing Alps and Sanctuaries at the time, and
meant that he must put her remark into the book ; he
used to say that one can get anything in anywhere if one
sets to work ; but I have not found this particular plum
in the book.
     I read Miss Savage's postscript to another friend, who
mused and muttered :
     " Let me see. One moment. ' The rain it raineth '—
yes—that's it :
                •The rain it raineth every day
                  Upon the just and unjust fellers,
                But more upon the just because
                  The unjust take the just's umbrellers.' "
     And this rhyme it seems is also well known as an
old saying. Evidently Butler assumed that Miss Savage
originated the jest, which she was quite capable of doing ;
but I suppose he was wrong and that he omitted it from
his book because she explained to him verbally that she
was not claiming it as her own ; she thought he would
know she was alluding to a common saying. I omitted
the plum from her postscript because it appeared to me
 then that the necessary explanation would be cumbrous ;

                   FOURTH EREWHON DINNER
1910-n but I want it now, because it points the contrast between
       the literary taste of Miss Savage and that of Miss Butler.
                                      191 1
             In March 1880 Butler finished and dated a portrait
       of himself and soon afterwards gave it to Gogin, who in
       1 9 1 1 gave it to Shrewsbury School ; it was hung in the
       headmaster's dining-room.
             I gave this year to St. John's College, Cambridge, the
       portrait of himself which Butler painted in 1878 —repro
       duced as the frontispiece to vol. I. of this Memoir.
             On the 14th July we had the fourth Erewhon dinner
       at Pagani's. The date this year was fixed to suit the
       convenience of Mr. William Phipson Beale, afterwards Sir
       William Phipson Beale, Bart. There were about seventy-
       five persons present. After the two toasts, speeches were
       made by myself, by Mr. H. W. Nevinson, Desmond
       MacCarthy, Phipson Beale, J. H. Baker, W. H. Gray,
       and Dr. Reginald Hughes. William Bateson also spoke,
       and referred to the changes which had taken place in public
       opinion since the publication of Erewhon ; for instance,
       legislation had lately been proposed for the isolation of
       those suffering from consumption, which reminded him
       of the imprisonment of sick persons in the satire. He
       was also pleased to think that Butler's portrait was now
       hanging in the Hall of St. John's College, on equal terms
       with ecclesiastics in wigs and lawn sleeves— another
       significant change.
             There is a passage in Erewhon (pp. 100-102 in the
       early editions, and pp. 120-122 in the 1901 edition), in
       the chapter headed "Malcontents" (which is chapter xii.
       in both editions), it begins: " 1 write with great diffidence,
       but it seems to me that there is no unfairness in punishing
       people for their misfortunes, or rewarding them for their
       sheer good luck," and ends, " because lunacy is less
       infectious than crime." One cannot always remember
       things at the right moment or, apropos of Bateson 's
       speech, I might have told the guests of this passage ; and
       I could have told them further that in the second-hand

 xliii        DEATH OF DIONIGI NEGRI                     425
 copy of Erewhon which I bought in 1906 (referred to 191 1
 ante, I. 363), this passage has a pencil line and crosses all
 down the margin, and where it begins are these words in
 Butler's handwriting : " Meant seriously." Perhaps my
 omission was not of much consequence, for I do not
 think that at the Erewhon dinners we have ever had
 many of those who protest that they never know when
 Butler is jesting and when he is serious.
      Dionigi Negri sent no honey for this dinner, and I
 wondered why. In the autumn I went to Varallo, where
 they told me that earlier in the year he had had a fall,
from which he never recovered, and in October he died,
 aged 67, about the same age as Butler was at the time of
his death.
      Mr. (now Sir) Francis Darwin, when President of the
British Association, in September 1908, in his Inaugural
Address at Dublin, had spoken with approval of Hering's
theory connecting the phenomena of heredity with
memory, and quoted from Butler's translation of Hering's
Lecture on Memory, which is contained in Unconscious
Memory. There had been a fire at Ballantyne's, as I have
said before, and this book had become scarce. Streatfeild
and I considered that it ought now to be made accessible,
in case any one might wish to read Butler's translation of
Hering's lecture, either in consequence of Mr. F. Darwin's
reference to it or otherwise. We therefore published
through Fifield a new edition which appeared during
the spring of 19 10. Almost immediately after the book
was out I received from Mr. Sydney C. Cockerell,
Director of the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, a letter
addressed to him by Francis Darwin asking him to find
out whether any one was writing Butler's Life, and saying
that he had letters from Huxley and Leslie Stephen
containing information which ought to be seen by Butler's
biographer. I replied direct to Francis Darwin, saying
that I was writing the Life, but that I hardly saw how
letters from Huxley and Leslie Stephen could find a place
in it ; nevertheless if he thought I ought to see them I
should be pleased to consider them. Thus began the

  426             MISPLACED DISTRUST
i correspondence which is referred to at the opening of
  chapter xviii. ante. I concluded my first letter thus :
  " Of course I reserve absolute liberty of action, and must
  be free to treat my subject as I think fit." I said this
  because I had inherited Butler's distrust of Charles Parwin,
  and remembered his saying somewhere that Francis Darwin
  and his brothers had descended from their father with
  singularly little modification.    Perhaps I ought not to
  have said what I did. I ought to have remembered
  Francis Darwin's public references to Butler, not merely
  the one at Dublin in 1908, but also the one at the Cardiff
   Meeting of the British Association in 189 1, mentioned
  ante, p. 116, and another in 1901, when Mr. F. Darwin
  delivered a lecture at the Glasgow Meeting of the British
  Association On the Movements of Plants. The report of
  this lecture in Nature, 14th November 1 901, contains
  this sentence : " If we take the wide view of memory
  which has been set forth by Mr. S. Butler {Life and
   Habit, 1878) and by Professor Hering, we shall be forced
  to believe that plants, like all other living things, have a
   kind of memory." And I ought to have remembered
   that it was partly because of these public allusions to Life
  and Habit by Francis Darwin that Butler had come to be
  more considered, and that people were beginning to under
  stand that a very serious purpose underlies his humour.
       Nevertheless I am glad I used the words, because
   Francis Darwin, in replying, commented upon them thus :
   " I do not think my letter to Mr. Cockerell showed any
   wish to interfere with your liberty ; I certainly have no
   such desire." Then after reading the papers he sent me,
   which I did with the greatest interest, I saw what a
   different light they threw on his father's silence, and I
   was able to write to him about my liberty in treating my
   subject : " You have not interfered with it, but you have
   done something else—you have altered the subject I have
   to treat."
       Mr. Francis Darwin and I corresponded about these
   letters until December 19 10.       In the course of our
   correspondence I asked him whether he consented to my
   making public the fact, disclosed in the letters he sent me,

xuii                  COMPROMISE                         427
that he and some of his brothers disapproved of the J911
advice given by Huxley and Leslie Stephen ; at the same
time I inquired whether he had had any other special
reason for sending me the papers. He gave his consent,
and added : " I had hoped that the general impression of
the papers sent you would have led you to suspect that
Butler was mistaken, but I do not mean to complain if
this is not in any degree the case."
     I understood him to mean mistaken in supposing
that Charles Darwin had undertaken his book, Erasmus
Darwin, because of or with reference to Evolution Old and
New. Even in 1879-80, when the events were proceed
ing, I had suspected that Butler might have been mistaken
in this, and I therefore told Francis Darwin so. I could
not tell him that my suspicion arose in consequence of
reading the letters he sent me, but I told him that on
reading them, and thinking them over again, I had
become convinced that Butler must have been mistaken.
 Further, I said that if he had known what was contained in
the letters he would have been confirmed in what he wrote
in his preface to the second edition of Evolution Old and
 New, that Charles Darwin may have been right and he
wrong, and would have taken or made an opportunity of
putting the matter straight.
     The case then stood thus : Butler's accusation was in
three counts :
     (1) That Charles Darwin undertook Erasmus Darwin
because of or with reference to Evolution Old and New ;
     (2) That his preface contained an error ;
     (3) That he made a mistake in the line he took when
the error was pointed out to him.
     Francis Darwin admitted (3) by saying that he dis
approved of the way in which the matter was treated ; I
gave up (1) by admitting that Butler must have been mis
taken ; and we agreed about (2).
     Having reached this point, Mr. F. Darwin wrote in a
subsequent letter : " I have often regretted that when the
quarrel began I did not go to Butler and have it out viva
voce. I also think I was mistaken in not publishing in Life
and Letters [of Charles Darwin] a full account of the thing."

         428          FIFTH EREWHON DINNER                        xun
1911-12       All this correspondence was utilised by me in pre
         paring a pamphlet, Charles Darwin and Samuel Butler :
         A Step towards Reconciliation, which was published by
         Fifield in November 191 1 ; and, as is said at the opening
         of chap, xviii. ante, the expenses of publication were shared
         equally by Francis Darwin and myself at his request.
                                       1912
              During this year the British Museum held an exhibi
         tion of prints and drawings, and included two of Butler's
         water-colours.
              Soon after Butler's death Gogin handed to me the
         portrait of Butler which he had painted in 1896, and it
         hung in my house in Maida Vale until 1 9 1 1 , when it was
        given to the National Portrait Gallery, where it was hung
        soon after the 18th June, 19 12. They have a rule not
        to hang portraits until ten years after the death of the
        subject. When I opened negotiations with the Gallery I
        told them that this portrait belonged to Gogin, and that
        he was giving it to them. On my telling Gogin I had
        done so, he objected, saying that he considered he had
        given the picture to me, and that I was giving it to the
        Gallery. " Besides," he said, " Butler would have liked
        the picture to have on it our three names : Portrait of
        Butler, painted by Gogin, presented by Jones." Knowing
        that this was the case, I went to the Gallery and saw Mr.
        Holmes, who, as I understood, promised that it should
        be so recorded. But when the picture was hung I saw
       that this had not been done. I suppose I must have been
       too insistent with my first idea, and that the red tape was
       too strong.
            The fifth Erewhon dinner took place at Pagani's on
        1 2th July, the date being fixed by Mr. Edmund Gosse,
        C.B., LL.D. There were about ninety persons present.
             After the two toasts, The King and The Memory of
        Samuel Butler, I told the guests about the discovery of
        Butler's lost " Dialogue on Species," which is related more
        fully in chapter vii. ante. Speeches were made by Mr.
        Edmund Gosse, Phipson Beale, Dr. Rowland Thurnam,
        Desmond MacCarthy, and Sir Charles Holroyd.

 xun       6th & 7th EREWHON DINNERS                    429
                               '9'3
     I gave to St. John's College, Cambridge : (1) A water- '9U-»4
 colour sketch made by Butler, when an undergraduate, of
 a part of the river ; (2) the two copies of his pamphlet,
 The Evidence for the Resurrection, cut about and bound
 into one, mentioned ante ; (3) the two copies of the
 Greek Testament, full of marginal notes in Butler's hand
 writing, also mentioned ante.
     The sixth Erewhon dinner was held at Pagani's on
 the nth July. The day was fixed to suit the Master of
St. John's College, Cambridge (Mr. R. F. Scott), and
there were about 112 persons present. After the two
toasts, The King and The Memory of Samuel Butler,
speeches were made by Professor W. H. Hudson, who
was an undergraduate at St. John's with Butler, and
by Mr. William Aubrey Willes, who accompanied Butler
from New Zealand to London in 1864, and gave us an
account of the voyage, the substance of which is contained
in his letter, ante, I. 109-110. The Master of St. John's,
Mr. Spenser Wilkinson, and Mr. E. S. P. Haynes also
spoke.
     Mr. John F. Harris, of St. John's, wrote an account
of the proceedings, which appeared in The Cambridge
Magazine of nth October, 19 13.
                              1914
    The seventh Erewhon dinner was held on 3rd July.
John Harris came and stayed with me for a few weeks
before the dinner, and made himself extremely useful
in sending out the cards and generally assisting in the
preparations. He wrote an account of the dinner and the
speeches, which appeared in The Press (Christchurch,
N.Z.). There was an innovation on this occasion and
ladies were present ; also we had to move from Pagani's,
because there was not room for us all there, and the dinner
took place at the Holborn Restaurant. There were about
160 present. The date was fixed by Mrs. Bernard Shaw,

     43°                MRS. GROSVENOR                      XLIII
1914 who was accompanied by her husband. After the two
     usual toasts, The King and The Memory of Samuel
     Butler, and an opening speech from me, the Right
     Hon. Mr. Justice Williams gave some account of his
     friendship with Butler during early years in New
     Zealand.
          The Hon. Mrs. Richard Grosvenor, formerly Mrs.
     Alfred Bovill, spoke of the honour conferred on her in
     being asked to speak at the first Erewhon dinner to
     which ladies were invited. She introduced herself by
     quoting Butler's note about the clergyman being a kind
     of human Sunday, his sister being a kind of human
     Good Friday, and Mrs. Bovill a human Easter Monday
     or some other Bank Holiday (ante, p. 94). This, she
     said, was the greatest compliment that had ever been paid
     to her in words. She concluded with several anecdotes,
     including the one about Butler's losing his " bloody
     ticket" (ante, p. 119), and a description of Butler as she
     remembered him.
         Among the other speakers were Desmond MacCarthy,
     who spoke of Butler's philosophy and humour, and said
     that his religion might be described as " a good rollick
     ing broad church paganism " ; George Bernard Shaw ;
     Gilbert Cannan who, alluding to Butler's declining to
    take orders in 1859, said that the doing of something
     " awful " was a necessary preliminary to finding oneself ;
    and Henry Marriott Paget, who gave some reminiscences
    of his student days with Butler at Heatherley's. Among
    those who did not speak was Miss Grace Stebbing, a
    daughter of the Rev. Henry Stebbing, who is mentioned
    ante, I. 230. The fact that her father wrote the opening
    review in the first issue of The Athenaeum, and was for
    many years closely connected with the paper to which
    Butler so frequently contributed, made Miss Grace Stebbing
    an appropriate link with the past.
         I had Mrs. Shaw on my right and Mrs. Grosvenor on
    my left, and when the dinner was over I signed to Alfred
    that I wanted him. He came and shook hands with Mrs.
    Grosvenor. He did more ; he patted her on the back
    and said :

xun              ALFRED JOHN CATHIE                                 431
     " Thank you, Mum. I heard every word you said, 1914
and you done it very nice and very feelin'."
     On the 1 6th August Alfred's son, Alfred John Cathie,
the nipper who in 1897 got lost in Leather Lane and
was brought home by a policeman, " otherwise he would
or rather was being taken to the police station," went to
France and served with his regiment. He had enlisted
in the Royal Field Artillery in February 19 14. Here
are some samples of his letters home :
               Alfred John Cathie to his Mother.
                                             Thursday, Oct. itA, 19 14.
    Dear Mother—Many thanks indeed for parcel received
on Oct. 7th. There was only one fault with it, that was, the
smell from the soap had penetrated into the cake and chocolate
which gave it a beautiful flavour ; still we got through it alright.
So please don't send any more soap as we now get well supplied
with it.
    I am glad to say I am still well and hope to remain so. We
have been very busy since we arrived here, but hope it will soon
be over so as to get back. We get on alright under the circum
stances, the food is alright and we don't do at all bad.
    When we arrived at Boulogne we had a fine reception,
arriving on Wednesday morning and remained in the town until
the evening, then left for a camp about three miles outside the
town. There we stopped till Friday afternoon when we entrained
for Veaux. We had a fine journey ; the French people gave us
a splendid reception all along the line. At each stopping place
there was refreshments of all description, one could have anything
they required. Arriving at Veaux at midnight we disentrained
and billeted in a field about half a mile from the station. After
fixing up the horse-lines it was three o'clock, so we had two
hours sleep.
    We left there at 5 o'clock on Saturday morning, and started
on the march and were marching all day and, it being very hot,
some of us felt it. In the evening we came to a halt and had a
few hours rest and resumed our marching on Sunday morning.
    Crossing the frontier we arrived in Mons Sunday, midday,
when we stayed in a field to have dinner. We had not been in
there half an hour when we received an order to pack up and the
brigade had to go into action. We were then in action the
remainder of the day. On Monday the firing was resumed until
the afternoon when an order was given for a general retirement.

      432         THE RETREAT FROM MONS
1914 We were- then retiring for two weeks towards the South of
      France, to a place called Fontenoy just below Meaux. There
      we started our advancing towards the Aisne. I think I'll finish
     now and let you know more in my next letter.
          Give my love to Dad and the girls, and I shall be very pleased
     to hear from them.
          Hoping to hear from you soon and with very best love.
     From your affectionate son,                                 Alf.
               Alfred J. Cathie to his Father and Mother.
          3 Nov. 1 9 14—We are at present in the thick of it, having
     shifted our position from the Aisne and gone further north. My
     word I we did have a warm time there ; we were in action for
     thirty days. Our Headquarters are now billeted in a farm-house,
    and we had rather a quiet time until three days ago, when two
    French batteries came into action in the next field, and since then
    we have had it rather warm.
         The Germans have been dropping shells all about us, trying to
    find these batteries. The colonel has given orders for us to dig
    trenches, so as to take cover when a hot fire is on. Here I am at
    present writing this letter in my trench shared by a chum, and
    the batteries are keeping up a constant fire, and shells bursting all
    around—it's very exciting. Still, apart from this, we haven't done
    so bad ; of a morning, first thing, when there are no shells about,
    a couple of us go out and milk a cow.
                      Alfred J. Cathie to H. F. Jones.
         gth Nov. 1914—-We found it very trying on the retreat from
    Mons, we were marching on the average twenty-five miles every
    day with little rest. How pleased we were when we reached
    Fontenoy, a small town a few miles below Meaux, and started
    advancing on Sept. 6th. Then we knew something was being
    done ; but on the retreat we seemed to be running away every day
    from the enemy and making no attempt to stop their advancing.
    This greatly disheartened the troops ; of course we did not know
    the scheme at the time.
                       Alfred J. Cathie to his Father.
         2nd Dec. 1 9 14—We are still in the rest camp ... I can tell
    you we are living like lords at present, but God knows we have
    earnt it. It's quite a pleasure to get out of range of the beastly
    Jack Johnsons and shrapnel shells, and this is the only time we

  *liii             THE OFFICERS' CART                           433
  are able to have a good time. The drivers take their horses out 1915-16
  for exercise in the morning, then turn them in the fields to graze.
  I now hear that one of our batteries have gone into action
  fourteen miles away to support the Indian Division, so that leaves
  us with two batteries.
       We have with us a small French cart which the officers use
  to put their food in, the colonel bought it on the retirement at a
  place called Guise. When we were coming out of our last
• position we had a slight accident with the cart. As we left the
  farm-house where we were staying and got on the road, the fellow
  who was leading the horse at the time (it was the colonel's
  servant) did not know the road, and about 50 yards down there
  was a big shell hole and, of course, it had been raining very hard
  two or three days previous to this, so the hole got filled up with
  mud and water and not noticeable. When we got to this a part
  of the harness broke, the wheels of the cart went into the hole
  and the body and shafts went up in the air and the driver went
  walking on with the horse. Laugh—I thought I should have
  died, it was so funny ; we were all standing in mud up to our
  knees trying to get the cart out. And we were all sweating in
  case a shell coming ; before this we had had a heavy shelling,
  anyhow we got out of it alright. I sometimes take the cart out
  into Hazebruck to get supplies for the officers. I go with one of
  the French interpreters (we have two in the brigade), and he goes
  mounted and I drive the cart. I think I best ring off now and
  tell you some more another time.
       I am happy to say that this boy, Alfie, is still (June
  1 9 16) "in the pink," as he expresses it. He has been
  home on leave twice ; on each occasion he came to dine
  with me, and we went to a theatre. His two sisters are
  living at home with their parents. Florrie is assistant in
  the Home and Colonial Stores in the Roman Road, Bow ;
  and Annie is machinist to a firm that makes underclothing
  in Bunhill Row.
                                 1916
       Miss Butler died at Shrewsbury on the 6th of January.
       In March Mr. Edward Clodd wrote that he was
  preparing a book of Reminiscences, and wished to include
 in it some letters he had from Butler. Streatfeild had no
 objection, but asked him to send copies of them. They
 were written at the time Butler was finishing Life and
 Habit, and disclosed what was to me a new and interesting
       vol. n                                               2F

                        PICTURES AND MSS.                       XUII
1916 fact, namely, that Mr. Edward Clodd was the friend who
      introduced him to Mivart's book, The Genesis of Species
      (ante, I. 258). This friend is referred to again, with his
     name again suppressed, on p. 34 of Unconscious Memory
     (1880), " How I wrote Life and Habit"
I         Butler's pictures, sketches, and studies were distributed,
     some to the British Museum, others to friends, but no
     list was kept. The destination of some of them has been
     already mentioned. Alfred has several, and I took those
     that were left over. On6 of his portraits of himself was
     sent to Christchurch, New Zealand, and hung in the
     Museum there, where also hangs his portrait of Mr. Cass
     (ante, I. 128). Gogin took one of the early portraits—
     a very curious one—and I have another.
          The MSS. of his books and music have been nearly
     all given away, and particulars will be found in the biblio
     graphy at the beginning of this Memoir. We did not
     find the MS. of A First Year in Canterbury Settlement \
     it may have been lost or destroyed ; in any case it was
     not likely to be among Butler's papers, because the book
     was seen through the press by his family. Nor did we
     find any MS. of the pamphlet, The Evidence for the
     Resurrection. All his other papers and MSS. are with
     Streatfeild, including a translation of the Works and Days
     of Hesiod, which he made while he was engaged upon the
     Odyssey. It has not yet been published, and it is the only
     work of his which has not hitherto been referred to in
     this Memoir.
          As a consequence of Mr. A. T. Bartholomew's publi
     cation of Butler's Simeonite Tract In Th"e Cambridge
     Magazine of March 1, 19 13 (ante, I. 47), I made his
     acquaintance on the 7th of May following, and soon after
     the seventh and last Erewhon dinner I was talking to
     him about this Memoir. I had written it, in the sense
     that I had covered the canvas, before the publication of
     The Note-Books of Samuel Butler in 19 12. The reception
     of that book showed me that I had laid the Memoir on
   ? lines that were unnecessarily reticent. I spent about
     eighteen months in going through the MS. and in putting
  I in many more letters, reminiscences, and notes. Then I

xun               A. T. BARTHOLOMEW                      435
had it copied and gave it to Bartholomew to read. There '9l6
were reasons why it could not be published immediately,
and, in the meantime, I was growing older and becoming
less able to work. I knew that the printing of a book is
always a troublesome business, and was beginning to
feel the force of what Elmsley must have meant when,
in one of his letters to Dr. Butler, he wrote of an author
as being the worst person to put one of his own works
through the press. Butler quoted this in his Note-Books,
and added : " It seems to me that he is the worst person
also to make selections from his own notes or indeed, in
my own case, even to write them." Whether I am the
worst person to write a Memoir of Butler is a question
not to be decided by me ; it cannot be decided by any one
until some other person shall write another Life of Butler
which may be compared with mine. I realised, however,
that during the necessary delay in publishing my work
I should inevitably be growing still older and becoming
a still less suitable person to put it through the press. I
told Bartholomew of my difficulty, and he urged me to
print the book at once and keep it ready. This idea
commended itself to me, especially as he was willing to
help. Early in 1915 I was so fortunate as to make terms
with Messrs. Macmillan, and by June 19 15 we had gone
to press.
     I cannot say how much Bartholomew has helped me
with the preparation of the MS. for the press and with
the correction of the proofs ; and besides all this, he has
compiled the bibliography and the index. If I were to
attempt adequately to express my obligations to him he
would give me more trouble than I could successfully
contend with, and at the end of a book of this length
one may be permitted to shrink from a struggle with the
scruples of modesty.
     It was one of his many wise counsels that formal
mention should not be made in this chapter of the publi
cation of the novel, or of new editions of Butler's books,
or of the books and articles about him which have
appeared since his death. They are included in the
bibliography, and the omission of them here has helped to

  436            THOUSANDS OF WORDS
6 make this chapter less scrappy and diffuse than it would
  otherwise have been. Nevertheless I fear that, more
  than any other chapter in the book, it lays itself open to
  the charge brought by Mr. Murray against The Life and
  Letters of Dr. Butler—that it is an omnium gatherum. I
  console myself by remembering that Butler replied, " Yes,
  but life is an omnium gatherum," thus converting a defect
  into a merit. If I could discover the many other Befects
  which I am sure must be lurking in these volumes, I
  would do my best to convert them also into merits if I
  could not remove them before it is too late.
       I have one other consolation. My final chapter is,
  as Butler said of " The Righteous Man," " the end, at any
  rate, of a very long thing." His " very long thing " being
  a discussion of ethical problems, and mine being a bio
  graphy, our two cases are not strictly parallel. There is
  length and length. This Memoir is, I admit, long in
  the sense that it contains many thousands of words ; it
  could not be otherwise ; Butler would have been displeased
  with me if I had given him fewer words than hejjave his
  grandfather. Numbers of words, however, may escape
  censure unless they result in tediousness, and I do not
  admit that this book is tedious.     But that is" to raise
  another question, which can only be decided by the
  reader.

                     APPENDICES
                                                         FACT
A. Review of Erewhon, by Miss Savage, from Thb Drawing-
      room Gazbttb (8 June 187a)    .                     439
B. Summary of Letter from Butler to Thomas William
      Gale Butler about thb Lifb and Habit Theory (18
      February 1876)                                      444
C. Documents relatinc to the Quarrel between Charles
      Darwin and Butler which arose out of the English
      Translation of Dr. Krause's Erasmus Darwin   .   .  44$
D. Chronolocy and Addenda for Thb Way of All Flesh     .  468
E. Inventories for Outings                                47a
                                437


                          APPENDIX A
           REVIEW OF EREfVHON, BY MISS SAVAGE, FROM
             THE DRAWING-ROOM GAZETTE (8 JUNE 1872)
                          (Cf. Memoir, I. 158)
                                                                       r
                      Erejthon.     TrUbner cV Co.
 Chamfort says in one of his maxims that "what generally 1871
 makes the success of a book is the affinity between the mediocrity
 of the ideas of the author and the mediocrity of the ideas of the
 public." We will hope for the sake of the author of Erewhon
 that this aphorism does not contain more than the usual measure
 of aphoristic truth, otherwise we should predict for his book only a
 very limited appreciation, for it is abounding in ideas of which not
 one may be accused of mediocrity. We do not think, however,
 that Erewhon will fail to be popular. It is a satire sharp and caustic
 enough, but tempered throughout by fun so irresistible that we
 laugh while we wince, and even when we might think the
 author's satirical powers misdirected we feel disposed to forgive.
 The hero of the tale, who tells his own adventures, is what he
 himself would call "a young gentleman." He k a very good
 young gentleman, of a religious turn of mind ; one may say of
 him, as Mr. Disraeli said of Mr. Gladstone, that he is " a man
 without a single redeeming vice " ; and he is possessed of an
•inestimable treasure in the shape of a never-failing spring of
 serene self-satisfaction. He is orthodox in all his opinions and
 glories in the fact that his mother was the daughter of an arch
 deacon. In spite of his clerical descent, however, he is consider
 ably misinformed with respect to the ceremonies of the English
 Church and fancies that baptism and christening are two distinct
 rites. He jumbles up Paley's Evidences with Butler's Analogy,
 and charmingly misquotes Shakespeare. But he is always pleased
 with himself, he is always deeply impressed with his own superi
 ority. In fact, he is a prig, and never has the character been
 more amusingly set forth. Moliere would not have disowned
                                   439

     44°                      APPENDIX A
1872 it ; and, indeed, there are touches here and there, which, if it
     were possible for departed spirits to be moved by earthly passions,
     would make him writhe with envy. Such, for instance, is the
     passage where he says that " the recollection of the many false
     hoods he was obliged to tell would render his life miserable were
     it not for the consolations of his religion." Now and again, how
     ever, the author drops the mask and makes his hero speak as he
     would himself. It is in these intervals that we are treated to the
     few charming bits of description that are scattered through the
     book—brief and but sparingly introduced, they add picturesque-
     ness and vividness to the narrative without in the least overloading
     it. We extract from the first chapter a description of the scenery
     in the colony whence the adventurous hero started on the journey
     that resulted in the discovery of the kingdom of Erewhon, the
     signification of which name our readers will probably be able to
     find out for themselves :
               The country was the grandest that can be imagined.
           How often have I sat on the mountain side and watched the
           waving downs, with the two white specks of huts in the
           distance, and the little square of garden behind them ; the
           paddock with a patch of bright green oats above the huts,
           and the yards and wool-sheds down on the flat below ; all
           seen as through the wrong end of a telescope, so clear and
           brilliant was the air, or as upon a colossal model or map
           spread out beneath me. . . .
               Never shall I forget the utter loneliness of the prospect—
           only the little far-away homestead giving sign of human
           handiwork ; the vastness of mountain and plain, and river
           and sky ; the marvellous atmospheric effects—sometimes
           black mountains against a white sky, and then again, after
           cold weather, white mountains against a black sky—
           sometimes seen through breaks and swirls of cloud—and
           sometimes, which was best of all, I went up my mountain in
           a fog, and then got above the mist; going higher and higher,
           I would look down upon a sea of whiteness, through which
           would be thrust innumerable mountain tops that looked like
           islands.
               I am there now, as I write ; I fancy that I can see the
           downs, the huts, the plain and the river-bed—that torrent
           pathway of desolation, with its distant roar of waters. Oh,
           wonderful ! wonderful ! so lonely and so solemn, with the
           sad grey clouds above, and no sound save a lost Iamb bleating
           upon the mountain side, as though its little heart were
           breaking. Then there comes some lean and withered old
           ewe, with deep gruff voice and unlovely aspect, trotting back
           from the seductive pasture ; now she examines this gully, and

                 MISS SAVAGE'S REVIEW                          441
      now that, and now she stands listening with uplifted head, 1872
      that she may hear the distant wailing and obey it. Aha !
      they see, and rush towards each other. Alas ! they are both
      mistaken ; the ewe is not the lamb's ewe, they are neither
      kin nor kind to one another, and part in coldness. Each
      must cry louder, and wander farther yet ; may luck be with
      them both, that they may find their own at nightfall. But
     this is mere dreaming, and I must proceed.
    He could not help speculating on what might lie on the other
side the ranges, and hoping to find good pasture land and,
perhaps, gold, he set forth on a voyage of discovery accompanied
by an old native called Chowbok, whom he endeavours to convert
to Christianity. Chowbok, however, has an invincible repugnance
to crossing the main range, and deserts his master just as the
latter is on the point of discovering a pass over the nearer
mountains. But undaunted by the probable dangers of the enter
prise our hero pushes on alone, and, as he says himself, " by good
luck, Providence being on his side," he reaches the kingdom of
Erewhon, after passing through many and various perils, very
graphically related, and being frightened almost to death by a
circle of gigantic stone figures of fiendish aspect that guard the
last pass, and that utter fearful and most unearthly noises, their
heads and bodies being, as he afterwards discovers, hollowed out
into a sort of organ pipes which sound with every breeze. The
inhabitants of the country are a magnificent race of people, and
they treat the adventurer with much kindness and some dis
tinction. They hold that physical health and beauty is the
highest good, and our hero has inherited from his clerical ancestors
an excellent constitution and a splendid physique as well as blue
eyes and yellow hair, which being extremely rare in Erewhon are
very greatly admired. His health and his complexion, therefore,
win for him a good deal of respect ; but at first he was regarded
with suspicion ; he had a watch in his possession, and that in
Erewhon is considered a capital crime. It appears that some
centuries ago the Erewhonians had reached our stage of civil
isation, overpassed it, and then, frightened by a book written by
a learned professor, and convinced by his arguments that the
perfection towards which machinery was so rapidly tending would
result in the subjection of the human race to the machines, they
decided after long years of civil war to destroy all machines that
had not been in use for 271 years, this period being fixed so as to
exclude a certain kind of mangle in use among the washerwomen,
and held to be dangerous. The learned professor's essay is
translated, and his arguments are so logical and so precise that
they almost carry conviction to the reader's mind and cause him
to look upon the simplest mechanical contrivances with much

     442                      APPENDIX A
187a the same sort of uneasiness as that with which Goethe's student
     of magic must have regarded the broomstick.
          These strange people have other peculiarities. They look
     upon all diseases as crimes to be punished severely, in some cases
     even with the penalty of death. Consequently they conceal with
     the greatest cunning any tendency to ill-health. We have an
     account given us of the trial of a young man for pulmonary
     consumption, who, though his disease is the result of necessary
     antecedent causes, is treated as if his health was completely under
     his own control, and condemned to imprisonment with hard
     labour for the rest of his life ; the only curative treatment
     adopted towards him being the administration of two table-
     spoonfuls of castor oil daily. On the other hand, Erewhonians
     are perfectly frank and open about their moral failings, and they
     have among them a sort of soul-doctors called " straighteners,
     whom they consult, as we do our physicians. Mr. Nosnibor, a
     gentleman of vast wealth, who received our hero into his house, is,
     at the time of the visit, undergoing medical treatment for having
     swindled a confiding widow out of the whole of her fortune.
     The treatment prescribed by the " straighteners " consists mainly
     in money fines and floggings. We are also introduced to a
     young lady who conceals her real weakness of health under the
     mask of dipsomania. The meaning of this satire on the treatment
     of our own criminals is easy enough to read, and may be profitably
     pondered in our minds. We have not space enough to enlarge
     on the other institutions of the Erewhonians ; their religious
     dogmas ; their theory of the pre-existence of souls ; their worship
     of the dread goddess Ydgrun, who is the personification of the
     "Que dira-t-on ? " that frightens so many honest people. It is
     enough to say that the lash of the author's satire falls fiercely on
     many of our social and religious hypocrisies and unrealities.
          In the account of the Colleges of Unreason we have an
     amusing parody of the education bestowed in our own universi
     ties. The young men are instructed principally in the science
     of hypothetics and the hypothetical languages, the study of
     possibilities and remote contingencies being considered as an
     infinitely better preparation for the business of life than that of
     actualities, a knowledge of which they are expected to pick up as
     they go along. This part of the satire, though the driest in the
     book, is nevertheless sufficiently diverting, especially the defence
     of " Unreason " and the account of the schools of Inconsistency
     and Evasion, in which last science the more "earnest" and
     "conscientious" students acquire a proficiency that is quite
    amazing. Many besides narrow-minded old Tories will enjoy
     the sly hit at the present Government, and chuckle over the
     inscriptions above the doors of the lecture rooms of the professors

                MISS SAVAGE'S REVIEW                           443
of these two sciences: "Consistency is a vice which degrades 1871
human nature and levels man with the brute " ; and " It is the
glory of the Parliament to make a law—it is the glory of the
minister to evade it."
    After a residence of two years in the country, the hero, who
has fallen in love with a young lady, elopes with her in a balloon.
The narrative of the escape is told with much power and is very
interesting. After various adventures he arrived with his wife in
London where he is now, supporting himself, he tells us, by
writing good little stories for the magazines. He has decided on
purely arbitrary grounds that the Erewhonians are the descendants
of the lost Ten Tribes of Israel, and he is ambitious of converting
them to Christianity, as by doing so he would secure a position
such as has not been attained by more than fifteen or sixteen
persons since the creation of the universe ; he would rank above
the minor prophets, and possibly above any Old Testament
writer except Moses and Isaiah. But he is not ambitious of
religious distinctions only ; " il vise au solide," and wishes to
combine a commercial enterprise with his missionary efforts.
He has, therefore, elaborated a plan for a joint-stock company
which shall bring vast profits to the shareholders. In this
scheme, suggested by a speech of Lord Normanby reported in
The limes, the author's irony throws so clear a light on the
unrighteous nature of the dealings of certain of our colonists with
the Polynesians that it should make them hang their heads for
very shame.

                            APPENDIX B
     SUMMARY OF LETTER FROM BUTLER TO THOMAS WILLIAM
           GALE BUTLER ABOUT THE LIFE AND HABIT THEORY
           (18 FEBRUARY 1876)
                            (Cf. Memoir^ I. 234)
1876     1. Actions which we have acquired with difficulty we now
     perform almost unconsciously, e.g. playing the piano, reading,
     writing, walking. As soon as we know how to do a thing
     exceedingly well, consciousness in respect of it vanishes. As
     long as we know that we know a thing we do not know it ; we
     only know it when we do not know of our knowledge.
         2. Whatever we do in this way is all one in kind, the differ
     ence is in degree. We play the piano almost unconsciously, we
     write more unconsciously, we read very unconsciously, we walk
     and talk still more unconsciously ; our breathing is, to a certain
     extent, under our control, our heart's beating is perceivable but not
     under control, our digestion is unperceivable and beyond control.
         3. A baby cannot grow itself in the womb unless it knows
     how to do it, and to know how to do it, it must have done it
     before or it will be contradicting all human experience. Its
     unconsciousness is the result of over-knowledge.
         4. It learnt to do it when it did it before ; that is, on the
     previous occasions when it was an impregnate ovum.
         5. It has attained to unconscious knowledge of how to do it
     by doing it a very great number of times in the persons of its
     ancestors.
         6. But how about identity ? There is no identity of
     matter between me as I am now and me as I was when I was
     an impregnate ovum, but there may be continuity of existence.
     And there may be a modified identity between me as an
     impregnate ovum and my father and mother as impregnate ova.
     Let us consider my ovum as the means adopted by my parents'
     ova not for reproducing themselves but for continuing themselves,
     and let us see the intermediate lives as a long potato shoot from
     one eye to the place where it will grow its next tuber.
                                      444

            BUTLER TO T. W. G. BUTLER                           445
    7. Given a single creature capable of reproducing itself and 1876
it must reproduce a creature capable of reproducing itself and
so on ad infinitum.
     Then comes Descent with Modification. Similarity tempered
with dissimilarity and dissimilarity tempered with similarity—
a contradiction in terms like almost everything else that is true
or useful or indeed intelligible at all. A begets A' which is A
with the additional experience of the dash. A' begets A", which
is A with the additional experience of A' and A" and so on to
An, but you can never eliminate the A.
    8. Let A" stand for a man. He begins as the primordial
cell splitting himself up for ever, and for ever gaining experience,
always doing as he did before when last he was in the same
position but always with the additional experience gained by his
having done it once oftener than when he did it last. First he
will do his tadpoles by rote, so to speak, on his head, from long
practice ; then he does his fish trick ; then he grows arms and
legs, all unconsciously from the inveteracy of habit till he comes
to doing his man, and this lesson he has not yet learnt so
thoroughly. Some part of it, as the breathing and oxidisation
business he is well up to, inasmuch as they form part of previous
roles, but the teeth and hair, the upright position, the power of
speech, though all tolerably familiar, give him trouble—for he is
very stupid, a regular dunce in fact. Then comes his newer and
more complex environment and this puzzles him — arrests his
attention—whereas consciousness springs into existence, as a spark
from a horse's hoof.
     Thus we are all one animal, and reproduction and death are
phases of the ordinary waste and repair which go on in our
bodies daily.

                        APPENDIX C
 DOCUMENTS     RELATING    TO   THE     QUARREL   BETWEEN  CHARLES
       DARWIN AND BUTLER WHICH AROSE OUT OF THE ENGLISH
       TRANSLATION OF DR. KRAUSE's ERASMUS DARWIN
                      (Cf. Memoir, eh. xviii.)
    I.   1880  January 2       Butler to Darwin.
   2.    1880  January 3       Darwin to Butler.
   3-    1880  January 21      Butler to Darwin.
   4-    1880  January 31      Butler in The Athenaeum.
   5-    1880  January 24      Darwin to The Athenaeum.
                                   Proposed letter No. 1.
   6.    1880  February    1   Darwin to The Athenaeum.
                                   Proposed letter No. 2.
   7. 1880 February a         Darwin to Huxley.
   8. [1880] February 4       Darwin to Huxley.
   9. 1880                     Extracts from chapter iv. of Un
                                  conscious Memory.
 10.    1880   December 8      Butler in The St. James's Gazette.
 11.    1 88 1 February 1     Butler to Messrs. Macmillan & Co.
 12.    1 88 1 February 3     Butler in Nature.
[13.]   1882                   [Butler's Preface to the Second
                                  Edition of Evolution Old and
                                  New, given in the text, ante, vol.
                                  I. p. 370]
 14.    1885                  Translation by Butler of an Ex
                                  tract from Charles Darwin by
                                  Ernst Krause (Leipzig, 1885), pp.
                                  185, 186.
 i5-    1885                  Butler's Note on the above Extract.
 16.    1887 November 26      Butler in The Athenaeum.
 17.    1887 December 17      Butler in The Academy.
                                 +46

          THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                             447
                                  I.
                         Butler to Darwin.
                                                 January znd, 1880.
Charles Darwin, Esq., F.R.S., &c.
    Dear Sir—Will you kindly refer me to the edition of 1880
Kosmos which contains the text of Dr. Krause's article on Dr.
Erasmus Darwin, as translated by Mr. W. S. Dallas ?
    I have before me the last February number of Kosmos, which
appears by your preface to be the one from which Mr. Dallas
has translated, but his translation contains long and important
passages which are not in the February number of Kosmos, while
many passages in the original are omitted in the translation.
    Among the passages introduced are the last six pages of the
English article, which seem to condemn by anticipation the
position I have taken as regards Erasmus Darwin in my book
Evolution Old and New and which I believe I was the first to
take. The concluding and therefore, perhaps, most prominent
sentence of the translation you have given to the public stands
thus :
           Erasmus Darwin's system was in itself a most significant
      first step in the path of knowledge his grandson has opened
      up for us, but to wish to revive it at the present day, as
      has actually been seriously attempted, shows a weakness of
      thought and a mental anachronism which no one can envy.
    The Kosmos which has been sent me from Germany contains
no such passage.
    As you have stated in your preface that my book, Evolution
Old and New, appeared subsequently to Dr. Krause's article, and
as no intimation is given that the article has been altered and
added to since its original appearance, while the accuracy of the
translation as though from the February number of Kosmos is, as
you expressly say, guaranteed by Mr. Dallas's "scientific reputa
tion together with his knowledge of German," your readers will
naturally suppose that all they read in the translation appeared in
February last, and therefore before Evolution Old and New was
written, and therefore independently of, and necessarily without
reference to, that book.
    I do not doubt that this was actually the case, but have failed
to obtain the edition which contains the passage above referred
to, and several others which appear in the translation.
    I have a personal interest in this matter, and venture, there
fore, to ask for the explanation which I do not doubt you will
readily give me.—Yours faithfully,                    S. Butler.

     448                       APPENDIX C
                              Darwin to Butler.
                                                       January %rd\ 1880.
1880      My dear Sir—Dr. Krause, soon after the appearance of his
     article in Kosmos, told me that he intended to publish it separately
     and to alter it considerably, and the altered MS. was sent to Mr.
     Dallas for translation. This is so common a practice that it
     never occurred to me to state that the article had been modified ;
     but now I much regret that I did not do so. The original will
     soon appear in German, and I believe will be a much larger book
     than the English one ; for, with Dr. Krause's consent, many
     long extracts from Miss Seward were omitted (as well as much
     other matter) from being in my opinion superfluous for the
     English reader. I believe that the omitted parts will appear as
     notes in the German edition. Should there be a reprint of the
     English Life, I will state that the original as it appeared in
     Kosmos was modified by Dr. Krause before it was translated. I
     may add that I had obtained Dr. Krause's consent for a transla
     tion before your book was announced. I remember this because
     Mr. Dallas wrote to tell me of the advertisement.—I remain,
     Yours faithfully,                                     C. Darwin.
                                       3-
                              Butler to Darwin.
                                                 15 Clifford's Inn, E.C.,
                                                      Jan. 21, 1880.
          Dear Sir—I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
     of the 3rd inst. which I should have done sooner had I not been
     in great doubt what course to adopt in regard to it.
          I have now decided on laying the matter before the public
     and have accordingly written to The Athenaeum stating the
     facts.—I am, Yours faithfully,                          S. Butler.
                                       4-
              Butler in " The Athenaeum" (31 Jan. 1880).
                          « Evolution Old and New."
         I beg leave to lay before you the following facts :
         On February 22, 1879, my book Evolution Old and New was
     announced. It was published May 3, 1879. It contained a

         THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                              449
comparison of the theory of evolution as propounded by Dr. 1880
Erasmus Darwin with that of his grandson, Mr. Charles Darwin,
the preference being decidedly given to the earlier writer. It
also contained other matter which I could not omit, but which I
am afraid may have given some offence to Mr. Darwin and his
friends.
    In November 1879, Mr. Charles Darwin's Life of Erasmus
Darwin appeared. It is to the line which Mr. Darwin has taken
in connexion with this volume that I wish to call attention.
    Mr. Darwin states in his preface that he is giving to the
public a translation of an article by Dr. Krause, which appeared
"in the February number of a well-known German scientific
journal, Kosmos" then just entered on its second year. He adds
in a note that the translator's "scientific reputation, together
with his knowledge of German, is a guarantee for its accuracy."
This is equivalent, I imagine, to guaranteeing the accuracy
himself.
    In a second note, upon the following page, he says that my
work Evolution Old and New "has appeared since the publication
of Dr. Krause's article." He thus distinctly precludes his
readers from supposing that any passage they may meet with
could have been written by the light of, or with reference to,
my book.
    On reading the English translation I found in it one point
which appeared to have been taken from Evolution Old and New
and another which clearly and indisputably was so ; I also found
more than one paragraph, but especially the last—and perhaps
most prominent in the book, as making the impression it was
most desired the reader should carry away with him—which it
was hard to believe was not written at myself; but I found no
acknowledgment of what seemed taken from Evolution Old and
New nor any express reference to it.
    In the face of the English translation itself, it was incredible
that the writer had written without my work before him ; in the
face of the preface it was no less incredible that Mr. Darwin should
have distinctly told his readers that he was giving them one article,
when he must have perfectly well known that he was giving them
another and very different one.
    I therefore sent for the February number of Kosmos and
compared the original with what purported to be the translation.
I found many passages of the German omitted, and many in the
English article were wholly wanting in the German. Among
these latter were the passages I had conceived to be taken from
me and the ones which were most adverse to me.
    Dr. Krause's article begins on p. 131 of Mr. Darwin's book.
There is new matter on pp. 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138,
     VOL. II                                               2 G

     45°                       APPENDIX C
1880 139, while almost the whole of pp. 147-152 inclusive and all the
     last six pages are not to be found in the supposed original.
          I then wrote to Mr. Darwin, putting the facts before him
     as they appeared to myself, and asking for an explanation. I
     received answer that Dr. Krause's article had been altered since
     publication, and that the altered MS. had been sent for translation.
     "This is so common a practice," writes Mr. Darwin, with that
     "happy simplicity" of which The Pal! Mall Gazette (Dec. 12th,
      1879) declares him to be "a master," "that it never occurred to
     me to state that the article had been modified ; but now I much
     regret that I did not do so." Mr. Darwin further says that,
     should there be a reprint of the English Life of Dr. Darwin, he
     will state that the original as it appeared in Kosmos was modified
     by Dr. Krause. He does not, however, either deny or admit that
     the modification of the article was made by the light of, and with
     a view to, my book.
          It is doubtless a common practice for writers, to take an
     opportunity of revising their works, but it is not common when a
     covert condemnation of an opponent has been interpolated into a
     revised edition, the revision of which has been concealed, to
     declare with every circumstance of distinctness that the con
     demnation was written prior to the book which might appear to
     have called it forth, and thus lead readers to suppose that it
     must be an unbiassed opinion.                          S. Butler.
          P.S.—A reviewer in The Pall Mall Gazette (Dec. 12th,
      1879) quotes the last sentence of the spurious matter, apparently
     believing it to be genuine. He writes : " Altogether the facts
     established by Dr. Krause's essay thoroughly justify its concluding
     words : c Erasmus Darwin's system was in itself a most significant
     first step in the path of knowledge which his grandson has opened
     up for us, but the wish to revive it at the present dayr as has
     actually been seriously attempted, shows a weakness of thought
     and a mental anachronism which no one can envy.'" On this
     (which his no place in the original article, and is clearly an
     interpolation aimed covertly at myself) the reviewer muses forth a
     general gnome that " the confidence of writers who deal in semi-
     scientific paradoxes is commonly in inverse proportion to their
     grasp of the subject." When sentences have been mis-dated, the
     less they contain about anachronisms the better, and reviewers
     who do not carefully verify Mr. Darwin's statements should not
     be too confident that they have grasped their subject.
          I have seen also a review of Mr. Darwin's book in The
     Popular Science Review for this current month, and observe that it
     does "occur to" the writer to state (p. 69), in flat contradiction to
     the assertions made in the preface of the book he is reviewing,

         THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                              451
that only part of Dr. Krause's original essay is being given by 1880
Mr. Darwin. It is plain that this reviewer had seen both Kosmos
and Mr. Darwin's book.
     The writer of the review of Evolution Old and New—which
immediately follows the one referred to in the preceding paragraph
—quotes the passage above given as quoted by The Pall Mall
Gazette. I see it does "occur to" him, too—again in flat
contradiction to Mr. Darwin's preface—to add that " this
anachronism has been committed by Mr. Samuel Butler in a . . .
little volume now before us, and it is doubtless to this, which
appeared while his own work was in progress [italics mine], that
Dr. Krause alludes in the above passage."
     Considering that the editor of The Popular Science Review
and the translator of Dr. Krause's article for Mr. Darwin are one
and the same person, it is likely that The Popular Science Review
has surmised correctly that Dr. Krause was writing at Evolution
Old and New ; yet he seems to have found it very sufficiently
useful to him.
                  Darwin to " The Athenaeum."
                      Proposed Letter No. I.
                                             Down, Beckenham.
                                                 January nth, 1880.
     Sir—Mr. Butler in his letter in your last number seems to
 think me guilty of intentional duplicity in not having stated in
the preface to my notice of the Life of Erasmus Darwin, that Dr.
 Krause had considerably altered the article in Kosmos before he
 sent it to Mr. Dallas for translation. In my private letter to Mr.
 Butler I said that it was so common a practice for an author to
 alter an article before its republication, that it never occurred to
 me to state that this had been done in the present case. After
 wards a dim recollection crossed my mind that I had written
 something on the subject, and I looked at the first proof received
 from Messrs. Clowes and found in it the following passage, here
 copied verbatim :
           Dr. Krause has taken great pains, and has added largely
       to his essay as it appeared in Kosmos ; and my preliminary
       notice, having been written before I had seen the addi
       tions, unfortunately contains much repetition of what Dr.
       Krause has said. In fact, the present volume contains two
       distinct biographies, of which I have no doubt that by Dr.
       Krause is much the best. I have left it almost wholly to

      452                       APPENDIX C
1880        him to treat of what Dr. Darwin has done in science, more
            especially in regard to evolution.
          This proof sheet was sent to Dr. Krause, with a letter in
      which I said that on further reflection it seemed to me absurd to
      publish two accounts of the life of the same man in the same
      volume ; and that as my notice was drawn up chiefly from
      unpublished documents, it appeared to me best that my account
      alone of the life should appear in England, with his account of
      the scientific works of Erasmus Darwin, but that he could, of
      course, publish the extracts from Miss Seward, etc., in the
      German edition. Dr. Krause, with the liberality and kindness
      which has characterised all his conduct towards me, agreed
      instantly to my suggestion ; but added that he thought it better
      that the text of the German edition should correspond with the
      English one, and that he would add the extracts, etc., in a supple
      ment or in foot-notes. He then expressly asked me to strike out
      the passage above quoted, which I did ; and having done so, it
      did not occur to me to add, as I ought to have done, that the
      retained parts of Dr. Krause's article had been much modified.
      It seems to me that anyone on comparing the article in Kosmos
      with the translation, and on finding many passages at the
      beginning omitted and many towards the end added, might have
     inferred that the author had enlarged and improved it, without
     suspecting a deep scheme of duplicity. Finally, I may state, as
     I did in my letter to Mr. Butler, that I obtained Dr. Krause's
      permission for a translation of his article to appear in England,
     and Mr. Dallas agreed to translate it, before I heard of any
     announcement of Mr. Butler's last book.
          He is mistaken in supposing that I was offended by his book,
     for I looked only at the part about the life of Erasmus Darwin ;
     I did not even look at the part about evolution ; for I had found in
     his former work that I could not make his views harmonize with
     what I knew. I was, indeed, told that this part contained some
     bitter sarcasms against me ; but this determined me all the more
     not to read it.
          As Mr. Butler evidently does not believe my deliberate
     assertion that the omission of any statement that Dr. Krause had
     altered his article before sending it for translation, was uninten
     tional or accidental I think that I shall be justified in declining
     to answer any future attack which Mr. Butler may make on
     me.—Sir, Your obedient servant,               Charles Darwin.
          [Note.—The passage " He is mistaken . . . not to read it "
     is marked as having been objected to, and there is a note showing
     that the whole letter was disapproved of by all Mr. Darwin's
     family.]

          THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                                 453
                                   6.
                  Darwin to " The Athenaeum?*
                     Proposed Letter No. II.
                                           Down, Beckenham, Kent,
                                               February ist, 1880.
                      " Evolution Old and New."
     Sir—In regard to the letter from Mr. Butler which appeared 1880
 in your columns last week under the above heading, I wish to
 state that the omission of any mention of the alterations made by
 Dr. Krause in his article before it was re-published had no con
 nection whatever with Mr. Butler.        I find in the first proofs
 received from Messrs. Clowes the words : u Dr. Krause has
 added largely to his essay as it appeared in Kosmos." These
 words were afterwards accidentally omitted, and when I wrote
 privately to Mr. Butler I had forgotten that they had ever been
 written. I could explain distinctly how the accident arose, but
 the explanation does not seem to me worth giving.                 This
omission, as I have already said, I much regret. It is a mere
illusion on the part of Mr. Butler to suppose that it could make
any difference to me whether or not the public knew that Dr.
Krause's article had been added to or altered before being
translated. The additions were made quite independently of any
suggestion or wish on my part.
     As Mr. Butler evidently does not believe my deliberate
assertion that the above omission was unintentional, I must
decline any further discussion with him.—Sir, Your obedient
servant,                                      Charles Darwin.
                         Darwin to Huxley.
                                         Down, Beckenham, Kent,
                                              February 2nd, 1880.
     My dear Huxley—I am going to ask you to [do] me a
great kindness.     Mr. Butler has attacked me bitterly, in fact
accusing me of lying, duplicity, and God knows what, because I
unintentionally omitted to state that Krause had enlarged his
Kosmos article before sending it for translation. I have written
the enclosed letter [Proposed letter No. II.] to The Athenaeum,
but Litchfield [Mr. Darwin's son-in-law] is strongly opposed to
my making any answer, and I enclose his letter, if you can find

    4                         APPENDIX C
j«8o time to read it. Of the other members of my family, some are
     for and some against answering. I should rather like to show
     that I had intended to state that Krause had enlarged his article.
     On the other hand a clever and unscrupulous man like Mr.
     Butler would be sure to twist whatever I may say against me ;
     and the longer the controversy lasts the more degrading it is to
     me. If my letter is printed, both the Litchfields want me to
     omit the two sentences now marked by pencil brackets, but I see
     no reason for the omission.
          Now will you do me the lasting kindness to read carefully
     the attack and my answer, and as I have unbounded confidence
     in your judgment whatever you advise that I will do : whether
     you advise me to make no answer or to send the enclosed letter
     as it stands, or to strike out the sentences between brackets ?—
     Ever yours sincerely,                        Charles Darwin.
          P.S.—Since writing the above I have received another letter
     from Litchfield with a splendid imaginary letter from Butler,
     showing how he probably would travesty my answer. He tells
     me that he took The Athenaeum to Mr. P                 and asked him
     (without giving any hint of his own opinion) whether Butler's
     attack ought to be answered, and he said " No." But I wait in
     anxiety for your answer as this will decide me.
          [Note.—The two sentences marked by pencil brackets are
     " I could explain . . . worth giving," and " As Mr. Butler . . .
      with him."J
                                      8.
                             Darwin to Huxley.
                                               Down, Beckenham, Kent.
                                                     Feb. 4 [1880].
           My dear Huxley—Oh Lord, what a relief your letter has
      been to me ! I feel like a man condemned to be hung who has
     1'ust got a reprieve. I saw in the future no end of trouble, but
         feared that I was bound in honour to answer. If you were
      here I would show you exactly how the omission arose. . . . You
      have indeed done me a lasting kindness.—Yours affectionately,
                                                          Ch. Darwin.
           The affair has annoyed and pained me to a silly extent ; but
      it would be disagreeable to anyone to be publicly called in fact
      a liar. He seems to hint that I interpolated sentences in Krause's
      MS., but he could hardly have really thought so. Until quite
      recently he expressed great friendship for me, and said he had
     learnt all he knew about evolution from my books, and I have

           THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                                            455
no idea what has made him so bitter against me.                   You have done 1880
me a great kindness. . . .
      Extracts from Chapter                       Unconscious Memory "
                                      iv. 9-of "1880).
                               (published
      By far the most important notice of Evolution Old and New
was that taken by Mr. Darwin himself; for I can hardly be
mistaken in believing that Dr. Krause's article would have been
allowed to repose unaltered in the pages of the well-known
German scientific journal, Kosmos, unless something had happened
to make Mr. Darwin feel that his reticence concerning his grand
father must now be ended. . . .
      This [Darwin's letter of 3 January 1880] was not a letter I
could accept. If Mr. Darwin had said that by some inadvertence,
which he was unable to excuse or account for, a blunder had
been made which he would at once correct so far as was in his
power by a letter to The Times or The Athenaeum, and that
a notice of the erratum should be printed on a fly leaf and pasted
into all unsold copies of the Life of Erasmus Darwin, there
would have been no more heard of the matter from me ; but
when Mr. Darwin maintained that it was a common practice to
take advantage of an opportunity of revising a work to interpolate
a covert attack upon an opponent, and at the same time to
misdate the interpolated matter by expressly stating that it
appeared months sooner than it actually did, and prior to the
work which it attacked ; when he maintained that what was
being done was " so common a practice that it never occurred "
to him—the writer of some twenty volumes—to do what all
literary men must know to be inexorably requisite, I thought
this was going far beyond what was permissible in honourable
warfare and that it was time, in the interests of literary and
scientific morality, even more than in my own, to appeal to
public opinion. I was particularly struck with the use of the
words " it never occurred to me " and felt how completely of
a piece it was with the opening paragraph of The Origin of
Species.1 It was not merely that it did not occur to Mr. Darwin
to state that the article had been modified since it was written—
this would have been bad enough under the circumstances—but
that it did occur to him to go out of his way to say what was
not true. There was no necessity for him to have said anything
about my book. It appeared, moreover, inadequate to tell me
that if a reprint of the English Life was wanted (which might
    1 The opening paragraph of The Origin of Species \t quoted by Butler in his letter
to Nature of 3 Feb. 1881 given post, p. 460.

     456                       APPENDIX C
1880 or might not be the case, and if it was not the case, why, a
     shrug of the shoulders and I must make the best of it), Mr.
     Darwin might perhaps silently omit his note about my book, as
     he omitted his misrepresentation about the author of The Vestiges
     of Creation and put the words "revised and corrected by the
     author" on his title-page. ...
          When I thought of Buffon, of Dr. Erasmus Darwin, of
     Lamarck, and even of the author of The Vestiges of Creation to
     all of whom Mr. Darwin had dealt the same measure which he
     was now dealing to myself ; when I thought of these great men,
     now dumb, who had borne the burden and heat of the day, and
     whose laurels had been filched from them ; of the manner, too,
     in which Mr. Darwin had been abetted by those who should
     have been the first to detect the fallacy which had misled him ;
     of the hotbed of intrigue which science has now become ; of the
     disrepute into which we English must fall as a nation if such
     practices as Mr. Darwin had attempted in this case were to be
     tolerated ; when I thought of all this, I felt that though prayers
     for the repose of dead men's souls might be unavailing, yet a
     defence of their work and memory, no matter against what odds,
     might avail the living, and resolved that I would do my utmost
     to make my countrymen aware of the spirit now ruling among
     those whom they delight to honour. . . .
          Here, then, I take leave of this matter for the present. If
     it appears that I have used language such as is rarely seen in
      controversy, let the reader remember that the occasion is, so far
      as I know, unparalleled for the cynicism and audacity with which
      the wrong complained of was committed and persisted in. I
      trust, however, that though not indifferent to this, my indigna
      tion has been mainly roused, as when I wrote Evolution Old
      and New, before Mr. Darwin had given me personal grounds of
      complaint against him, by the wrongs he has inflicted on dead
      men on whose behalf I now fight, as I trust that some one—
      whom I thank by anticipation—may one day fight on mine.
                                      IO.
          Butler in " The St. James s Gazette" (8 Dec. 1880).
                      Mr. Darwin and Mr. Butler.
          I should fail in respect to your readers if I were to let your
      review of my book, Unconscious Memory, pass entirely without
      notice.
          Your reviewer is mistaken in thinking that I have any
      quarrel with Mr. Dallas, who, it seems to me, was placed in a

          THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                              457
difficult position and behaved very well. Dr. Krause should not 1880
have taken passages from me without acknowledgment ; but
 " this is so common a practice that it never occurred to me " to
be angry at it. My complaint is against Mr. Darwin only, and
rests upon the following grounds :
     In February, 1879, Dr. Krause published an account of Dr.
Erasmus Darwin in a German periodical, Kosmos. At the end
of the same month my book, Evolution Old and New, was
announced. It was published May 3, 1879. It contained a
comparison of the theory of evolution as propounded by Dr.
Erasmus Darwin with that of his grandson, Mr. Charles Darwin,
the preference being decidedly given to the earlier writer. It
also contained other matter which I could not omit, but which
I am afraid Mr. Darwin and his friends did not like.
     In the summer of 1879 a translation of Dr. Krause's essay
with a preliminary life of Dr. Erasmus Darwin was announced as
forthcoming from the pen of Mr. Charles Darwin. In November,
1879, it appeared. In his preface to this work Mr. Darwin
stated that he was giving a translation of the article by Dr.
Krause which had appeared in Kosmos ; he said the accuracy of
the translation was guaranteed by the well-known attainments of
the translator, Mr. W. S. Dallas. He further expressly stated
that my work Evolution Old and New appeared since Dr. Krause's
article. At the time he said this he was not giving the article as
it stood before Evolution Old and New was published, but another
and very different one—namely, the article after it had been
modified by the light of, and with a view to, Evolution Old and
New, so as to become practically an attack upon that work.
     When I say modified, I do not mean a little modified, but
greatly and materially so ; pages together of the original article
being omitted, and pages together of entirely new matter intro
duced. I may say that one new passage of nearly two pages,
consisting of translation from Buffon, was obviously derived from
Evolution Old and New itself; I thus prove that Dr. Krause had
Evolution Old and New before him while revising his work.
Another new passage is presumably from the same source. The
concluding six pages of the professed translation are entirely new.
The last, and perhaps most prominent, sentence is as follows :
" Erasmus Darwin's system was in itself a most significant first
step in the path of knowledge which his grandson has opened up
to us ; but to wish to revive it at the present day, as has actually
been seriously attempted, shows a weakness of thought and a
mental anachronism which no one can envy." This passage is in
itself an anachronism, as I have elsewhere said, for it is antedated.
Through Mr. Darwin's preface it professes to have appeared in
February, 1879. It did not appear till November 1879. Mr.

458                       APPENDIX C
Darwin says it appeared before my book Evolution Old and New ;
it did not appear till six months afterwards. It is spurious—not
what it professes to be ; for it professes, through Mr. Darwin's
preface, to be translated from a certain article in Kosmos, whereas
the article contains no such passage. It is an interpolation
directed at myself. Professedly written by one who had never
seen Evolution Old and New ; in truth written at that book by
one who had it before him.
    I wrote to Mr. Darwin, and said in substance : " There is an
attack upon my last book apparently interpolated into a work for
which you are responsible, and you have expressly stated that the
attack appeared before my book was published ; will you explain ? "
Mr. Darwin replied that Dr. Krause had indeed altered his
article before it was translated, and continued, "This is so
common a practice that it never occurred to me to state that the
article had been modified ; but I now much regret that I did not
do so. . . . Should there be a reprint of the English Life I will
state that the article as it appeared in Kosmos was modified by
Dr. Krause before it was translated." The rest of the letter is
irrelevant This ignored my complaint. Mr. Darwin's letter,
though it sounds like an apology, is a skilful evasion of the
gravamen, and, as such, an aggravation of the offence. He
neither admits nor denies that a covert attack upon myself had
been interpolated and antedated. He does not attempt to repair
the mischief temporarily by any of the many and easy means of
doing so. The only reparation he offers is contingent upon a
second edition of the Life of Erasmus Darwin being called for.
As a matter of fact, a second edition has not been called for.
    The substance of the foregoing appeared in a letter which I
wrote to The Athenaeum, January 31, 1880. The charge was
grave ; it was made with great publicity ; I gave my name, and
referred to accessible documents, but there was no rejoinder. I
have therefore gone more fully into the matter in Unconscious
Memory, in the hope of drawing attention to what, on public
grounds, should not be allowed to pass over in silence.
    For the rest, let me ask your readers to turn to Unconscious
Memory itself. The book is short, and printed in a clear large
type, which will render it easy reading.
    I would also ask your reviewer to be kind enough to refer
your readers and myself to those passages of Mr. Herbert Spencer's
Principles of Psychology which in any direct, intelligible way refer
the phenomena of instinct and heredity generally to memory on
the part of offspring of the action which it bona fide took in the
persons of its ancestors. I shall be delighted to make acquaintance
with them.
  Dec, 4 [1880].

         THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                                   459
                                   11.
               Butler to Messrs. Macmillan & Co.
                                              15 Clifford's Inn, E.C.
                                                   Feb. 1st, 1 88 1.
    Private.
    Gentlemen—I have received a letter from the editor of 1881
Nature declining to insert my letter unless I modify it so as not to
make it "a vehicle for attacking Mr. Darwin." It is obvious that
this is impossible if I am to reply adequately to Mr. Romanes' article
and Dr. Krause's letter.
    I received proof direct from the printer yesterday evening,
corrected it, made some additions and posted it before I received
the editor of Nature's letter. The proof as returned corrected is
the only reply which will set my case adequately before the
public. I consider therefore that the editor of Nature declines to
insert my rejoinder and reply to Dr. Krause.
     If I understand my position rightly—and I should say that the
counsel's opinion which my solicitors are taking has not yet reached
them—the matter is not one between myself and the editor of
Nature but between myself and you as publishers of the matter
complained of. I must inform you therefore that unless my
letter as returned amended to the printers last night is inserted in
the next number of Nature I consider you to have refused the
redress which I have applied for.
     This letter is written without prejudice to any course I may be
presently advised to take.—I am, Yours faithfully,
                                                           S. Butler.
                                    12.
               Butler in "Nature" (3 Feb. 1881).
             Mr. S. Butler's Unconscious Memory.
     I must reply to the review [signed by Mr. Romanes] of my
book Unconscious Memory in your issue of the 27th inst., and to
Dr. Krause's letter on the same subject in the same issue.
     Mr. Romanes accuses me of having made "a vile and abusive
attack upon the personal character of a man in the position of
 Mr. Darwin " which I suppose is Mr. Romanes' way of saying
that I have made a vile and abusive personal attack on Mr.
Darwin himself. It is true I have attacked Mr. Darwin, but
Mr. Romanes has done nothing to show that I was not warranted
in doing so. I said that Mr. Darwin's most important pre
decessors as writers upon evolution were Buffon, Dr. Erasmus

      4.6o                       APPENDIX C
¦88 1 Darwin, Lamarck and the author of The Vestiges of Creation.
      In the first edition of The Origin of Species Mr. Darwin did
      not allude to Buffbn nor to Dr. Erasmus Darwin, he hardly
      mentioned Lamarck, and he ignored the author of The Vestiges of
      Creation except in one sentence. This sentence was so gross
      a misrepresentation that it was expunged — silently — in later
      editions. Mr. Romanes does not and cannot deny any part of this.
           I said Mr. Darwin tacitly claimed to be the originator of the
      theory of evolution, which he so mixed up with the theory of
      " Natural Selection " as to mislead his readers. Mr. Romanes
      will not gainsay this. Here is the opening sentence of The
      Origin of Species :
                When on board H.M.S. Beagle as naturalist, I was much
            struck with certain facts in the distribution of the inhabitants
            of South America, and in the geological relations of the
            present to the past inhabitants of that continent. These
            facts seemed to me to throw some light on the origin of
            species—that mystery of mysteries, as it has been called by
            one of our greatest philosophers. On my return home, it
            occurred to me, in 1837, that something might perhaps be
            made out on this question by patiently accumulating and
            reflecting on all sorts of facts which could possibly have any
            bearing on it. After five years' work I allowed myself to
            speculate on the subject and drew up some short notes ;
            these I enlarged in 1844 into a sketch of the conclusions,
            which then seemed to me probable j from that period to the
            present day I have steadily pursued the same object. I hope
            that I may be excused for entering on these personal details,
            as I give them to show that I have not been hasty in coming
            to a decision"—{Origin of Species, p. 1. ed. 1859).
          What could more completely throw us off the scent of the
     earlier evolutionists, or more distinctly imply that the whole
     theory of evolution that followed was an original growth in Mr.
     Darwin's own mind ?
          Mr. Romanes implies that I imagine Mr. Darwin to have
     "entered into a foul conspiracy with Dr. Krause, the editor of
     Kosmos " as against my book Evolution Old and New, and later on
     he supposes me to believe that I have discovered what he calls, in
     a style of English peculiar to our leading scientists, "an erroneous
     conspiracy." The idea of any conspiracy at all never entered my
     mind, and there is not a word in Unconscious Memory which will
     warrant Mr. Romanes' imputation. A man may make a cat's
     paw of another without entering into a conspiracy with him.
          Later on Mr. Romanes says that I published Evolution Old
     and New in the hope of gaining some notoriety by deserving, and

         THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                              461
perhaps receiving, a contemptuous refutation at the hands of Mr. 1881
 Darwin. I will not characterise this accusation in the terms
which it merits.
     I turn now to Dr. Krause's letter, and take its paragraphs in
order.
     1. Dr. Krause implies that the knowledge of what I was
doing could have had nothing to do with Mr. Darwin's desire to
bring out a translation of his (Dr. Krause's) essay, inasmuch as
Mr. Darwin informed him of his desire to have the essay
translated "more than two months prior to the publication of
my book Evolution Old and New. This, I have no doubt, is
true, but it does not make against the assumption which I made
in Unconscious Memory, for Evolution Old and New was announced
fully ten weeks before it was published. It was first announced
on February 22, 1879, as about to contain "copious extracts"
from the works of Dr. Erasmus Darwin and a comparison of his
theory with that of his grandson Mr. Charles Darwin. This
announcement would show Mr. Darwin very plainly what my
book was likely to contain ; but Dr. Krause does not say that
Mr. Darwin wrote to him before February 22, 1879—presumably
because he cannot do so. I assumed that Mr. Darwin wrote
somewhere about March 1, which would still be " more than two
months before " the publication of Evolution Old and New.
    2. Dr. Krause says I assume that "Mr. Darwin had urged
him to insert an underhand attack upon him (Mr. Butler)." I
did not assume this ; I did not believe it ; I have not said any
thing that can be construed to this effect. I said that Dr.
Krause's concluding sentence was an attack upon me ; Dr.
Krause admits this. I said that under the circumstances of Mr.
Darwin's preface (which distinctly precluded the reader from
believing that it could be meant for me) the attack was not an
open but a covert one ; that it was spurious—not what through
Mr. Darwin's preface it professed to be ; that it was antedated ;
that it was therefore a spurious and covert attack upon an
opponent interpolated into a revised edition, the revision of which
had been concealed. This was what I said, but it is what neither
Mr. Romanes nor Dr. Krause ventures to deny. I neither
thought nor implied that Mr. Darwin asked Dr. Krause to write
the attack. This would not be at all in Mr. Darwin's manner.
    3. Dr. Krause does not deny that he had my book before
him when he was amending his article. He admits having taken
a passage from it without acknowledgment. He calls a page
and a half "a remark," I call it " a passage." He says he did not
take a second passage. I did not say he had. I only said the
second passage was " presumably " taken from my book, whereas
the first " certainly " was so. The presumption was strong, for

     462                      APPENDIX C
1881 the passage in question was not in Dr. Krause's original article;
     it was in my book which Dr. Krause admits to have had before
     him when amending his article ; but if Dr. Krause says it is
     merely a coincidence, there is an end of the matter.
         4. Dr. Krause, taking up the cudgels for Mr. Darwin, does
     not indeed deny the allegations I have made as to the covertness
     and spuriousness and antedating of the attack upon myself, but
     contends that " this is not due to design, but is simply the result
     of an oversight " ; he is good enough to add that this oversight
     "could only be most agreeable" to myself. When I am not in
     the wrong I prefer my friends to keep as closely as they can to
     the facts, and to leave it to me to judge whether a modification
     of them would be most agreeable to myself or no. What, I
     wonder, does Dr. Krause mean by oversight ? Does he mean
     that Mr. Darwin did not know the conclusion of Dr. Krause's
     article to be an attack upon myself? Dr. Krause says, "To
     every reader posted up in the subject this could not be doubtful,"
     meaning, I suppose, that no one could doubt that I was the person
     aimed at. Does he mean to say Mr. Darwin did not know he
     was giving a revised article as an unrevised one ? Does he mean
     that Mr. Darwin did not know he was saying what was not true
     when he said that my book appeared subsequently to what he was
     then giving to the public ? Does he pretend that Mr. Darwin's
     case was not apparently made better and mine worse by the
     supposed oversight ? If the contention of oversight is possible,
     surely Mr. Darwin would make it himself, and surely also he
     would have made it earlier ? Granting for a moment that an
     author of Mr. Darwin's experience could be guilty of such an
     oversight, why did he not when it was first pointed out, more
     than twelve months since, take one of the many and easy means
     at his disposal of repairing in public the injury he had publicly
     inflicted ? If he had done this he would have heard no more
     about the matter from me. As it was, he evaded my gravamen
     and the only step he ever proposed to take was made contingent
     upon a reprint of his book being called for. As a matter of feet,
     a reprint has not been called for. Mr. Darwin's only excuse for
     what he had done, in his letter to myself, was that it was "so
     common a practice" for an author to take an opportunity of
     revising his work that " it never occurred to " him to state that
     Dr. Krause's article had been modified. It is doubtless a common
     practice for authors to revise their work but it is not common
     when an attack upon an opponent is known to have been inter
     polated into a revised edition, the revision of which is concealed,
     to state with every circumstance of distinctness that the attack
      was published prior to the work which is attacked.
          To conclude—I suppose Mr. Romanes will maintain me to

         THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                              463
be so unimportant a person that Mr. Darwin has no call to bear 1882-5
in mind the first principles of fair play where I am concerned,
just as we need keep no faith with the lower animals. If Mr.
Darwin chooses to take this ground, and does not mind going on
selling a book which contains a grave inaccuracy, advantageous to
himself and prejudicial to another writer, without taking any
steps to correct it, he is welcome to do so as far as I am concerned
—he hurts himself more than he hurts me. But there is another
aspect of the matter to which I am less indifferent : I refer to
its bearing upon the standard of good faith and gentlemanly
conduct which should prevail among Englishmen—and perhaps
among Germans too. I maintain that Mr. Darwin's action and
that of those who, like Mr. Romanes, defend it has a lowering
effect upon this standard.                              S. Butler.
     [Butler's Preface to the Second Edition (1882) of Evolution
Old and New written on the occasion of the death of Charles
Darwin appears in the text of this Memoir, vol. I. p. 370.]
                                  14.
 Translation by Butler of an Extractfrom "Charles Darwin"
       by Ernst Krause (Leipzig, 1885), #>. 185, 186.
     Unfortunately there was an oversight in connection with
this version [Erasmus Darwin"] which, though of trifling
importance, gave occasion to vindictive attacks upon Darwin.
 He had forgotten in his preface to say that my essay had been
revised and added to before being translated. One of the
additions was the concluding sentence of the essay, which ran
as follows :
          Erasmus Darwin's system was in itself a most signi
      ficant first step in the path of knowledge which his grand
      son has opened up to us, but to wish to revive it at the
      present day, as has actually been seriously attempted, shows
      a weakness of thought and a mental anachronism which no
      one can envy.
     These words referred to an English author Mr. Samuel
 Butler, who three months after the appearance of my essay had
published a book (Evolution Old and New. London, 1879)
which, among other absurdities, sought to show that the theory
of evolution put forward by Erasmus Darwin was much more
sensible and more near the truth than that of his grandson.

     464                      APPENDIX C
«S*5     As soon as the English version of my essay, with Darwin's
     introduction, had appeared, this not very scrupulous writer, in
     his endeavour to make it a means of gaining notoriety, accused
     Darwin in several English journals of having had the translation
     made for the sole purpose of endeavouring to discredit by anticipa
     tion his book Evolution Old and New which, when the translation
     was begun, had not yet been published. He contended that,
     with this end in view, Darwin had purposely said nothing about
     the revision of my essay, and given the revised translation as
     though it were an accurate version of the original essay. In
     vain did Darwin write to his accuser expressing regret for his
     "serious oversight" and promising in a future edition to remove
     the cause. Samuel Butler came out remorselessly with a bulky
     book {Unconscious Memory. London, 1880) against " the falsifier."
     The cause was ridiculous, for, if the oversight had been
     intentional, the only person whom it could have benefited was
     Mr. Butler himself, inasmuch as if the essay was what it pro
     fessed to be the fact of its having been written three or four
     months before Mr. Butler's book showed that the author could
     not possibly have been intending to class Mr. Butler with the
     weak-minded people mentioned in the article. A document
     which mentions Charlemagne cannot have been written before
     the birth of Christ, and one who is forging a pre-Christian Codex
     will be careful to avoid alluding to him.
         The occurrence is worth referring to for two reasons—firstly
     inasmuch as many readers may have heard of it without at the
     same time hearing the explanation ; and secondly because it
     shows that in spite of the superficial respect that was paid to him
     there was an ever-smouldering dislike for the disturber of men's
     peace ; indeed many of the best reviews and newspapers in
     England were not ashamed to notice these attacks which were
     no less frivolous than absurd, and this shows what their real
     disposition was. Did it never occur to any of these before
     receiving such an odious attack to ask themselves why Mr.
     Butler should attack with such severity a simple act of forgetful-
     ness which hurt nobody and was fraught with the most obvious
     advantage to himself?
                                      IS-
              Butler s Note on the above Extract (No. 14).
         Dr. Krause omits to say that though Mr. Darwin forgot to
     say that the essay had been revised, he did not forget to go out
     of his way to say something which he perfectly well knew
     to be untrue. My gravamen is not the omission of reference to

           THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                                            465
 the revision, but Mr. Darwin's express declaration on the first 1887
 page of his preface that he was giving an accurate translation
of the essay as it originally appeared, and his no less express
declaration on the second that Evolution Old and New appeared
subsequently to what he was giving to the public, though at the
time he said this he was fully aware that what he was giving
 had been remodelled by the light of Evolution Old and New and
 transformed into a covert attack upon it. The concluding
sentence gave the reader to understand that what I had done
 was something which others had already been doing, and which
 was notoriously silly. For Dr. Krause's contention of forgetful-
 ness and his argument about Charlemagne to hold good something
should have been said which could not have referred to anyone
except me. This, of course, was avoided.
                                        16.
          Butler in " The Athenaeum " (26 Nov. 1887).
                 Mr. Darwin and Mr. S. Butler.
                          15 Clifford's Inn, Fleet Street, Nov. 22, 1887.
      In Mr. Francis Darwin's recently published Life and Letters
of the late Charles Darwin I find the following passage :
            The publication of the Life of Erasmus Darwin led
       to an attack by Mr. Samuel Butler, which amounted to a
       charge of falsehood against my father. After consulting his
       friends, he came to the determination to leave the charge
       unanswered, as being unworthy of his notice.1 Those who
       wish to know more of the matter may gather the facts of
       the case from Ernst Krause's Charles Darwin and they
       will find Mr. Butler's statement of his grievance in The
       Athenaeum, January 31st, 1880, and in The St. James's
       Gazette, December 8th, 1880. The affair gave my father
       much pain, but the warm sympathy of those whose opinion
       he respected soon helped him to let it pass into a well-merited
       oblivion.
     If the affair " well merits oblivion " why does not Mr.
Francis Darwin leave it alone ? It has caused as much pain to
myself as it can have caused the late Mr. Charles Darwin, and
drawn upon me an obloquy not more easy to bear for being
    1 He had, in a letter to Mr. Butler, expressed his regret at the oversight which
caused so much offence. [Note by Mr. F. Darwin.]
      VOL. II                                                            2 H

     466                      APPENDIX C
1887 unmerited. I had resolved never to return to the subject, and,
     though very angrily attacked in respect to it by Dr. Krause in
     his German work Charles Darwin was advised to say no more
     unless attacked in English. In Luck or Cunning ?, therefore,
     published a year ago, I refrained even from remote allusion to it.
     Now that Mr. Francis Darwin has reopened the matter let me
     ask why he has omitted to refer his readers to my book Unconscious
     Memory and to my letter to Nature, February 3rd, 1 881, in both
     which places he is well aware that I stated the case with far
     greater fulness than in your columns or in The St. Jameses Gazette ;
     and why does he not refer to some English publication for a
     statement of his father's case, instead of to a German book which
     few of his readers are likely to see ?
         In Unconscious Memory I have explained that the letter to
     myself, in which Mr. Francis Darwin says his father expressed his
     regret, was in reality an aggravation of the offence. It is very
     short ; why, I wonder, if it was a sufficient expression of regret,
     has not Mr. Francis Darwin printed it ? He now contends that
     I brought a charge of falsehood against his father so frivolous that
     there can have been no necessity to reply to it. I, on the other
     hand, contend that Mr. Francis Darwin is trying to justify at my
     expense a high-handed action of his father's and to evade challenges
     repeatedly made which neither the late Mr. Darwin nor any of
     his successors has ever ventured to take up. I repeat, then, that
     the late Mr. C. Darwin's pretended translation of Dr. Krause's
     article was a garbled, antedated, and hence misleading version ;
     that Mr. Darwin knew the article had, since its original publica
     tion, been manipulated in a sense seriously hostile to me and
     favourable to himself ; that, in spite of this knowledge, he said in
     his preface to Erasmus Darwin that he was giving the original
     article ; expressly stated that my own book had appeared sub
     sequently to this, though he knew that what he was giving to the
     public had been modified by the light of, and turned into an
     attack on, my book ; and on complaint from me he took not one
     single step towards a public correction of his misstatement.
                                                            S. Butler.
               Butler in " The Academy" (17 Dec. 1887).
             " Erasmus Darwin " and " Evolution Old and New."
                                                    London, Dec. 14, 1887.
          On Saturday last a new edition of the late Mr. Charles
     Darwin's Erasmus Darwin was advertised, of which till then I

         THE BUTLER-DARWIN QUARREL                               467
 knew nothing. In this edition a foot-note, which runs as 1887
follows, is added to the original preface :
          Mr. Darwin accidentally omitted to mention that Dr.
      Krause revised, and made certain additions to, his essay
      before it was translated. Among these additions is an
      allusion to Mr. Butler's book, Evolution Old and New.
    Mr. Francis Darwin, who appears to be responsible for this
foot-note, fails to see that what I have always complained of was
not an accidental omission, but a deliberate suppressio veri. In
the original preface the late Mr. Darwin told his readers he was
giving them a certain article and went out of his way to state
expressly that " Mr. Butler's work, Evolution Old and New" had
appeared " since the publication " of that article. When Mr.
Darwin said this he knew that he was not giving the original
article which he said he was giving. He knew that Dr. Krause
had recast his article, had had Evolution Old and New before him
while doing so, and had turned the revision into an attack upon
that book. It is idle to say that Mr. Darwin did not know he
was suppressing a material point, which, if expressed, would have
done away with the appearance of independent condemnation of
my views which, as it was, was offered to the public.
    In his recently published Autobiography Mr. Darwin refers to
his Erasmus Darwin as follows :
          In 1879 I had a translation of Dr. Ernst Krause's Life
      of Erasmus Darwin published, and I added a sketch of his
      character and habits from material in my possession. Many
      persons have been much interested with this little life, and I
      am surprised that only 800 or 900 copies were sold.
    There is not here a word of compunction about the alleged
oversight. The only thing that seems to exercise him is that he
did not sell more copies ; and yet in Mr. Francis Darwin's Life
and Letters of his father we read that " he had a keen sense of the
honour that ought to reign among authors, and had a horror of-
any kind of laxness in quoting" (vol. I. p. 157).
    Mr. Francis Darwin has now stultified his father's original !
preface ; and this, I suppose, I ought to take as an amende. Very
well, I take it, somewhat, I am afraid, in the same spirit as that in
which it is offered ; and shall return to the silence which I had
kept for some years and which, if Mr. Francis Darwin had not
recently reopened the subject, I should not have broken.
                                                Samuel Butler.

                    APPENDIX D
   CHRONOLOGY AND ADDENDA FOR THE WAT OF ALL FLESH
             CHRONOLOGY OF THE NOVEL
       Ml.
      p. I  1727   Old Mr. and Mrs. Pontifex born.
            1800   Christina born chap. ix.
            1801   John Pontifex born.
 p. 1 p. 20 1802   I born p. 1, and Theobald (my name is
                     Edward p. 7)
            1750   Old Pontifex married p. 11.
     p. 12  1765   George Pontifex born in January.
            1780   Mrs. Fairlie came to stay with old P. p. 15.
            1790   G. P. went into partnership p. 19.
            1797   He married p. 19 a woman 7 years younger
                      thn hiself.
p. 67 & 73  1798   Xtina born.
            1805   Alethasa Pontifex born and her mother
                     died p. 20.
            181 1  Old Mrs. Pontifex died aged 84 p. 22.
            1 81 2 Old Mr. P.             „      „ 85 p. 23.
                   Theobald's correspondence with his father
                     Theobald's
                     found         death. and51.given to myself on
                             by Ernest
            1825   spring Theobald took his degree p. 58.
              „    autumn was ordained p. 58.
            1825   Nov. went over first to the Allabys.
            1 83 1 July—married—p. 93.
            1832   January. I go and stay with them. Ellen
                      born.
            1835   Ernest born Sep. 6.
            1838   Old Pontifex died act. 73 or in the 73d year.
            1836   Sep. Joseph Pontifex born Vol. I. pt. 2. p. 18.
            1837   Aug. the daughter born.
            1848   Jany. He is 12 and goes to school. Chap,
                      xxii.
                               468

                    THE WAY OF ALL FLESH                                        469
                   1848      Jany. He goes to school.
                   1849      Augt. his aunt Alethasa goes down.
                   1850      Easter she dies.
                      „      Ellen went to Battersby aged 18. born 1832.
                   1 85 1    Mids. his bad character.
                      „          „ The Ellen row.
                   1854      Oct. He goes to Cambridge.
                   1856      Sep. 6. came of age.
                   1858      Feb. took his degree.
                     „       Ember weeks was ordained and goes up to
                                 London.
                   1859      Spring, wrote his mad letters.
                     »       Mar. 26 was arrested.
                             Sep. 28 „ released.
                             Oct. 15 „ married—he just turned 24.
                   i860      Easter prosperous—his wife begins to drink.
                  i860       Sep. a girl born.
                   1 861            A boy
                                „end.                      his prosperity
                                           His „wifeAllruins     him. Then        an
                                                                          nowheatsaw
                                 what the devil had been at with him.
                  1862       Mar. 25. he sees John and finds out that he
                                 is not married.
                  1862       Ap. 15. Goes abroad with me.
                  1863       Sep. 5 is 28 yrs. old and comes into his
                                 money.
                     „      November. Xtina dies.
                  1867       Chap. xlvi. and chap, lxxxxix.
                  1 88 1     Theobald died.
            ADDENDA FOR THE PONTIFEX NOVEL1
      Dawson 2 write a letter to Ernest as per one o' Joe
McCormick's 2 me. Ernest says " if a man has remembered his
creator in e days o' hs youth &c."
      But no one ever knew better than Shakespeare that one
touch &c.
      Have you sd that Theob. and X'na loved Ernest " too wisely
but not well " ?
      Ernest to know nothing but half pennies.
     " May I have the baby when it is worn out.**
     We unfold our days as one who plays patience.
     There are people who will shake their wills at those nearest
to them up to the last moment of their lives—no matter how old
    1 At the time Butler wrote these addenda he had adopted on trial a method of
abbreviation here preserved, e.g. 2 for to ; o' for of j v for very.

47°                          APPENDIX D
their children. It is all v. well to say that it is a person's own
fault if he allows this &c. He often cannot help it.
     If it includes ye bishop, and such men we wl say as Prof.
Huxley and Tyndal—let it include ye fortune teller too.
     That God is a respecter of money, whether he respects persons
or no and he seldom goes behind y* money. See remarks in CP.
blc. pp. 822, 823.1
     If a man sins agst money it is jr* sin agst ye H.G.
     Ye rarer virtues 2 be treated as botanists treat rare plants and
exterminated.
     Give Theobald an epitaph.
     Have you got " how hardly shall they that have riches &c." ?
     Ernest to say of Charlotte "She is an idyllic cat" after
reading her letter.
     Bishop Ellicott on ye furtive progress o' high churchism—see
Times Jan. 17 1885 (for note to ye episode re this in the deathbed
o' Xtina chapters).
     Charlotte to make Mrs. Henty's speech CP. bk. 228.
     Let us settle about ye facts first and fight &c. 744 Sec.
     If manners make y" man much more do they make the
woman 818.
     That we shall all one day lose our money is as certain as that
we shall all one day die. 822, 823 & 824.
     Amy's dogs carrying a bit of ham in their mouths.
     " Happily they are rotten at ye core."
     Xtina's kitten might have grown into a formidable cat if
Theobald hd not killed it when he did.
     For ye same scene " He reflected that he and Christina were
united it must be for years and it might be for ever."
     My father's Woodsias.
     Boss—her backbone curdled and her heart jumped out of
its socket.
     The natural child.
     " He is Mr. B's child not mine."
     " Its a shilling off ye rent."
     What chance wd St. Paul's Epistles or y" gospel o' St. John
have o' being admitted into a Xtian journal.
     See extract from Bishop Ellicott's charge CP. bk. 801 or
rather Times Jan. 17. 1885.
     Xt. is indeed abt our bed and abt our path &c. 624.
     Bishop Butler worsted in an encounter with ye evil one when
he published ye analogy 630.
     Charlotte put herself on y* family pedestal, or ws put there by
Xtina and all were to bow ye knee before her.
               1 CP. bk. = Commonplace Book, i.e. the Note-Books.

                 THE WAY OF ALL FLESH                             47 i
    If God would only marry her daughter she cd do all ye rest
herself.
    Ye mixture o' ye black and white notes being so beautiful.
    She was a very Gothic woman like a recumbent crusader.
    " She committed her soul to him on whom she relied as alone
worthy of its care."
    She was sensible—as sensible that is to say as she ever was—¦
nearly to the last.
    All the house linen was marked " Worsley."
     How I called on Aunt Sarah after Uncle John's death.
     For Pont. Novel—"At that time every Jewish mother
thought herself &c." I give the Jewish mothers credit for
more sense.
    Mrs. Jupp said she thought two gentlemen together was so
very insipid.
     She enounced herself like the subject of a fugue.
     Charlotte to write and say she " believes it is not unfrequently
done " (to tip servants).
     Charlotte on his father's death offers him his father's under
clothing.
     The same old fluff " and the mousedirts was cruel."
     " He was a shabby man in his ways and rather busy and not
very sincere. In fact they are all shabby. This young man's
aunt sold all her father's sermons for waste paper at 1 J a lb. to
wrap butter and bacon in, at a shop in this town, and many of the
inhabitants out of respect to their old vicar gave 2d. for a whole
sermon."
           Extract from a letter from my gt. Aunt Mrs. Paley of Easing-
      wold (daughter-in-law of the Evidences &c. mother of Prof. F. A.
       Paley) to my grandfather
      date abt May 20, 1835.
     Let Ernest make some remarks about Casabianca.

                        APPENDIX E
                     INVENTORIES FOR OUTINGS
     [Note.—Butler began drawing up Inventories for Outings
because, when away from home, he so frequently found that he
had brought things he did not want and forgotten things he did
want. He reconsidered the lists during every outing until they
 finally shaped themselves into those which follow, the MS. of
 which is in Alfred's handwriting. The one headed "Foreign
 Outing" includes Erewhon Revisited, but as he does not say
 whether he was to take an advance copy or the published book it
is not clear whether it refers to the spring or the autumn of igoi
or to his last journey in 1902.]
                             Boulogne
     Night-shirt. 3 pr. Socks.    6 Collars. 8 Handkfe. Necktie.
Laces. Menthol. Slippers. Medicine Chest. Sponges, etc.,
wrapped in Towel. Sticking-plaster. Portfolio fully charged.
MS. Music Book and paper. Small Note Book. Cigarettes and
Mouthpieces. Clothes and Hat-brush. Scissors. Court-plaster.
Looking-glass. Copying-ink. Map.
     Sling Bag. Foreign money. Large Rug. Overcoat. Cap.
Paperknife. Field Glasses.
     Night-shirt.           Shrewsbury
                    2 pr. Socks.    3 Collars.  6 Handkfs.   Dress
Suit. Shirt. Studs. Tie. Dress Boots. Medicine Chest.
Portfolio. Copying-ink. Menthol. Cigarettes. Mouthpieces.
Clothes-brush. Slippers. Sponges. Hair-brushes, &c, wrapped
in Towel.
     Sling Bag. Overcoat. Rug.
                                 472

             INVENTORIES FOR OUTINGS                       473
                        Foreign Outing
     Handle Half of Gladstone Bag.—MS. Music Book. Copy
ing paper. Driers. Oil Sheets. Spare drawing-paper. Best
Coat & Vest. Flannel Shirt. Rulers. Case for paint-brushes
and pencils. Japanned Tray. Slippers. Strop. Medicine
Chest. Looking-glass. Hat & Clothes-brush. 2 pr. of Socks.
12 Handkfs. W.C. paint-box and bottle. Top of Camp-stool.
     The Other Half.—Best trousers. Collar-box, contg. Collars ;
Horn Cup ; Bootlaces ; Ties ; Cotton-wool. Towel. Erewhon
and E. Revisited.
    Sandwich-box, contg. Menthol ; Bread-box ; Toothpicks ;
Scissors; Water-colours; Sponges; India-rubber; Cork of
drawing-pins ; Sticking-plaster ; Elastic bands ; Mouthpieces ;
2 Note-Books; Studs; Corks; Corkscrew; Spare knife ; Stiletto;
Paper-fasteners ; Waverley pens ; Red Chalk ; Pencil ; Caustic ;
Compasses ; Diarrhoea pills ; Magnifying-glass.
    Night-shirt. Sponge and Case. Hair-brushes. Tooth-brush.
Soap. Tooth-powder. Vaseline. Spare specs.
    In the Flap.—Lint. Diachylon plasters. Powders. Paint
rags. Visiting Cards. Newspaper Wrappers. Curlpapers.
    Sling Bag.—A/c Book. Passport. Ticket. Small Sketch
book. Sketching Portfolio charged. Writing Portfolio charged.
Paperknife. Cap. Copying-ink. Telescope.
     In Overcoat Pocket.—Cigarettes. Mouthpieces. Gloves.
    Roll.-—Rug. Umbrella. Under Vest. Drawers. Camp
tripod.
    Foreign money. Linen Bag.


                                         INDEX
     Inconsistency is a vice which degrades human nature and levels man with
the brute.—Rev. Thomas Butler.
     Logic and consistency are luxuries fir the gods and the lower animals.—
Samuel Butler.
A.B.C., Rathbone Place, Butler and Fur-            "Advertisement"
                                                   Adversity,
                                                   Aeneas,
                                                   Adragna ii.family,
                                                                 the
                                                                 134 teaching
                                                                           141 of, i.ii. 248-9
                                                                       ii.picture,        251, 291
      nivall at the, ii. 310 fill.
" A. M.", pseudonym adopted by Butler,
      i. 101, 125
Aaron, Mist Savage on, i. 315-16                   Aeolus, to be got into Ulysses, ii. 67
   and Lucy, i. 331                                   island of, ii. 188, 262
Abbott, E. A., Butler's note on, i. 182-3                note, 252
                                                   Aeschylus,     Dr. Butler and, ii. 132 and
Abraham, Dr., Bp. of Wellington, N.Z., i.
      loo-IOI, 124-5                               "Affaire, L', Holbein-Rippel " {Universal
Abrutzi, ii. 291                                         Review), ii. 87-8, 101
Academy,
      366 The, on Alps and Sanctuaries, i.         'A-fdry and yswit, i. 50, 282, 285, ii. 228
                                                   Agar, Mr. T. L., Butler to, on the Iakin
      466-7
      edition
   Butler  in, on
               of Erasmus
                   the publication
                              Darwin,   a new
                                    of ii. 60,           coin, ii. 386-7
                                                   Ahasuerus, ii. 297
                                                   Ainger, Alfred, completely deceived bv
   Butler and Ridgeway in, on writing in                 Tie Fair Haven, i. 1 99
      Homer, ii. 233                                  Butler on, i. 355
   amalgamated with Literature, ii. 364               and Lamb, i. 382
Accadcmia Dafnica di Scienze, Lettcre, e              and Ulysses, ii. 38, 105
      delle Arti in Aci-Reale, ii. 156                and " the onlie begetter," ii. 325
Accademia di Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti de'         Airolo, i. 239
      Zelanti di Aci-Reale, ii. 156                Aisne, ii. 432
Accent, i. 216                                     Ajaccio, ii. 165
Accident and design, i. 285                        Ajax, tomb of, ii. 218
Acertes, ii. 134                                   Alagna, ii. 57
Achilles and Patroclus, tomb of, ii. 218           Alatri, ii. 153, 154,,242
Aci-Castello, ii. 387                              Albany Magazine, ii. 7, note
Aci-Reale, spelling of, i. xi                      Albatross, Butler compared to an, i. 89
   Alfred and, ii. 156                             Albemarle Street, ii. 37 1
   Butler honoured at, ii. 156                     "Albergo Samuel Butler," ii. 410
   earthquake at, ii. 18 1-2, 184, 191             Albert, Prince Consort, ii. 268
   Butler and Jones at, ii. 243, 342               Albert Hall, 1. 294 bis
   and the Iakin coin, ii. 387                     Alcaics, ii. 156, 255
Aci-Trezza, ii. 387                                Alcinous, ii. 107, 122, 133
Acis, i. 147                                       Aldrich, Miss A. C. C, i. xii, ii. 214
Acts and Galatea (Handel), i. 147                        ii. 215-16
                                                      extracts    from her journal in Greece,
Acland, J. B., i. 104
Aconite, ii. 412                                   Alessandria, Church of S. Maria di Castello
Adam and Eve, at Varallo, ii. 57                         at, ii. 138
Adamo, Cav., ii. 243, 277                          Alethea. See Pontifex, Alethea
Adelphi Terrace, ii. 340                           Alexander Balus (Handel), ii. 383, 385
Adirondack, i. 215                                 Alford, Dean, i. 59, 179
                                               475

476                      ALFRED — APTHORP (H.)
Alfred. See Cathie, Alfred Emery                  Alps and Sanctuaries (untd.)—
Alfred the Great, ii. 344                            and Butler at the Linnean Society,
Alfred Street (Whitehall estate), ii. 344               '• 4H
All, D'. Sie D'All                                   and Boredom, i. 444
All lie Tear Round, i. 316                           Tennyson and, ii. 13
Allbutt, Dr., Butler to Mrs. Heathcrley              // Dovere and, ii. 1 8
      on, ii. 49-50                                  and the parroco at Soazza, ii. 22
Allen, Grant, and Butler's Selections from           Varallo, ii. 54
      Previous Worhs, i. 73, 405, 409                ¦ Chow," ii. 58
   and Evolution, Old and Nevj, i. 304, 37 1         and Lord Beaconsfjeld, ii. 75
   Butler's note on, i. 417                          and Dr. Mandell Creighton, ii. 178
   Butler and, at Mr. Edward Clodd's, ii.            episodes for another, ii. 190
       19-21                                         and Miss Aldrich, ii. 216
   and Harblot, ii. 23                               and Rockstro, ii. 228, 229
   his Charles Darwin, ii. 28, 43, 44                and Rev. J. M. Wilson, ii. 303
   reviews Luck or Cunning T, ii. 44                 analysis of the sales of, ii. 311
Allen, Mrs. (Metropolitan Typewriting                plum for, ii. 423
      Office), i. xii                             Alps and Sanctuaries. New edition ( 1 9 1 3),
Allesley, Butler at school at, i. 31-2                  bibliography, i. xxviii
Allman, Prof. G. T., and Mr. Salter, i. 41 1         " Fusio Revisited," i. 239
Alpers, Mr. O. T. J., obituary notice of          Alternifolium, i. 278, ii. 40
      Butler, i. xxv                              Amber, ii. 185
   on Thomas Cass, i. 128-9                       Americans, Butler on, i. 222, 333
   Butler's letters to, ii. 381-2, 386                  ii. 251
                                                  Amiens,    Butler on the choir sculptures at,
Alpha and Omega, ii. 393, 396
Alps and Sanctuaries (1882), bibliography,        Amphinomus, ii. 171, 172, 309
       i. xxiii                                   Amsterdam, ii. 295-6
    " disgrazia," i. 26                           " An aged lady, taken ill," i. 416
   "Considerations on the Decline of              " Analysis of the Sales of My Books," L
   Piora,
   "   Italian
      Fusio,"    i.Art,"
                     239 i. 1 15-16, 364, ii. 228
             i. 240-41                                   159, ii. 310-11
                                                  "Ancora sull' origine Sicilians deli'
                                                        Odissea," i. xxiv
   pictures in, i. 241, 358, 360, 363             u And now, though twenty years are come
   Rossura Porch, i. 284                                and gone," ii. 350
   "A Day at the Cantine," i. 288, 306,           " And the Devil did grin," i. 283
       ii. 40                                     Anderson, Charles, i. 277
    Dissertation on Lying, i. 297, 355            Andratina, i. 270
   Edward Lear introduced, i. 306                 Andrews, Miss, i. 174, 191
   Vogogna, i. 308                                   and The Fair Haven, i. 192
   Sammichele, i. 333, 364                           and the British Museum, i. 250
   and David Bogue, i. 334, 362                      and love, i. 311
   Miss Savage's verses for, i. 334               "Angel" (Islington), ii. 128
   notes and sketches for, i. 335                 Angera, i. 56, 145
   Ballad of Wednesbury Cocking, i. 348              Butler and Jones at, i. 282-3, 3°7> "¦
   Miss Savage on, i. 356-7                             228
   quotations from memory in, i. 358              Animadversational mind, Butler on the,
   published, i. 362                                    ii. 315, 316
   echo of Ereivhon in, i. 363-4                  Animals, Rights of, ii. 374
   Richard Garnett and, i. 364                    Ann, and Butler's clothes, ii. 18-19
   Roman Catholic Church and, i. 364              Anthropological Institute, Tylor's paper
   Seven Humbugs of Christendom, i.                     before the, i. 410-11
       364-5                                      Antinous, i. 218
   not selling, i. 366-7                          Antohgia Nuova, i. xxv, ii. 383, 384, 385
   reviews of, i. 366-9                           Aosta, i. 375, ii. 55-7
   Wordsworth and, i. 368                         Apium graveolens, ii. 268-9, 404
   The Tablet and, i. 368                         Apollonius Rhodius, on Corfu, ii. 133
   Rosminian Fathers and, i. 373-4                Apperly, Mr., ii. 266
   Bishop Tozer and, i. 385                       Appleby, i. 228
   at Miss Savage's gallery, i. 386               Appropriate passages, ii. 3, 9
   Butler's opinion of, i. 390                    Apthorp, Dr. East, i. 9
   Athenaeum and Academy declined to an           Apthorp, Harriet (wife of Dr. Samuel
       nounce, i. 404                                   Butler and S. Butler's paternal grand-

                   APTHORP (S.) — AUTHORESS                                                 477
       mother).      See Butler, Mrs. Dr.           Athenaeum, The (contd.)—
       Samuel                                          Herbert Spencer in, i. 410, ii. 42
Apthorp, Susannah, i. 28, 45                           Butler's paper on the Bellini heads in,
AquiU, ii. 29 1                                           ii. 26, jofoil., 32
Arabi, i. 375                                          Butler refuses to review Grant Allen
Aretino, Pietro, i. ' 3;                                  in, ii. 28, 44
Aretino, Spinello, i. 394                              Butler on its reviews of his books, ii.
Argos, ii. 21 3 foil.                                     49
Argyll,More Duke
               Leaves     in aQueen
                    of,from    Journal,     i. 429
                                        Victoria's     Butler in, on the Life and Letters of
                                                          Charles Dartvin, ii. 59, 465-6
Argyll, Duke of, and Luck or Cuming t                  Butler's letter in, on Scheria and Tra-
       ii.43                                              pani, ii. 122, 123
Arienta, Signor, ii. 62, 164, 225                      Butler's letter in, on Ithaca and
Aringa Rossa, i. 3 5 1                                    Marettimo, ii. 124
Aristophanes, and Plato, ii. 276                       Butler in, on Apium graveolens, ii. 268
Aristotle,
       ii. 315why he never edited his works,           Garnett's penance in, ii. 280-81
                                                       Butler in, on the date of Shakespeare's
Arno's Vale, Bristol, L 1, 13, 17                         Sonnets, ii. 294
Arnold,Montreal,"
             Matthew, i. 277
                           and "A Psalm of             Shakespeare's Sonnets Reconsidered and, ii.
                                                           316
   his position and Butler's contrasted, ii.           Howard Staunton and, ii. 319
      .5°                                              Butler in, on "the onlie begetter," ii.
    his edition
Arnold,           of Wordsworth,
             Dr. Thomas,                 322of Dr.
                             and theii.Life
                                                       " Not on sad Stygian shore " in, ii.
       Butler, ii. 382                                     360-61, 367
Arona, i. 145, 283                                  Athens, Butler at, ii. 212 foil.
    and the Pagets, i. 307                          Atina, ii. 153
Arpino, ii. 153                                     Atkinson, Mrs. Beavington, Narcissus per
" Art in the Valley of Saas " (Universal                  formed at her house, ii. 121
       Review), ii. 100                             Atoms, interest in, i. 298
" Art is life," i. 143                              " Aunt, The, the Nieces, and the Dog "
Articles, Butler on the, i. 64-5, 98                       (Universal Review), ii. 82-4
Ashburton river, i. 84                              Aunt Sarah. See Worsley, Sarah
Aainelli, ii. 145                                   Aurelius Antoninus, Marcus, Butler's re
 Assisi, ii. 291                                           semblance to, i. 282, 286
Astrology, Richard Garnett and, i. 388-9               one of the Seven Humbugs of Christen
Astronomy, Butler and, i. 282, ii. 7, 234                  dom, i. 364
    Alfred and, ii. 125                                 Butler on, ii. 276
Atalanta (Handel), i. 36                               and Maeterlinck, ii. 276
Athaliah54 (Handel) and Narcissus, ii. 53-          Auriculas, ii. 404
                                                    Aurigae Drepanenses, ii. 244
 Athanasian Creed, i. 96-8                          Aurora Leigh, i. 143
 Athenaeum, The, Obituary notice of Butler           Aurum, i. 430
        in, i. xxv                                  Austen, Jane, and the Odyssey, ii. 106
    Dr. Stebbing and, i. 230, ii. 430                Austin, Alfred, ii. 293
    Butler in, on Ray Lankester's review of         Austin, John and Sarah, i. 27
        Hering's Lecture, i. 257, 259, 271,         Author, Butler on the business of an, ii.
        33*. 4>*                                           322
    Miss Savage and, i. 262                          Authoress of the Odyssey, The (1897),
    Life and Habit reviewed in, i. 269, 271                bibliography, i. xxiv, xxvi
    Butler's letter to, in the Darwin quarrel,          Aunt Bather quoted in, i. 35
        i. 324, 342, 343, 372, ii. 448/0//.            quoted as to Penelope's failure to get
    Darwin's proposed replies, i. 326-7, ii.               rid of the suitors, i. 437 note, ii. 119
        45 •/""•                                        quoted as to Butler's travels in Sicily,
    Darwin on Butler's letter, i. 327, ii.                 ii. 139/0//.
        453/»«-                                         Butler's Italian pamphlets and articles
    Alps and Sanctuaries and, i. 366                       used in," ii. 156, 211, 261 and note,
     Butler in, on Romanes and Kingsley, i.                *77
        404, 405                                       frontispiece, ii. 167, 241
     Romanes's
        note
        reviewed Mental     Evolution
                   in, i. 409,   412, in     20 and
                                        ii. Animals    quoted as to the Goat island, ii. 181
                                                        MS. given to Trapani, ii. 244, 300, 411
                                                        quoted as to Cel'alu, ii. 245

  478                         AUTHORESS — BEES
  Authoress ofthe Odyssey, The {eontd.)—          Bartholomew, A. T., i. xii
     Butler occupied with, ii. 264                    " Samuel Butler and the Simeonites,"
     and Dr. Butler, ii. 265                            i. xxviii, 47, ii. 434
     with John Murray, ii. 267                        and H. F. Jones, ii. 434-5
     refused by John Murray and other             Barton, Mr., 1. 253
         publishers, ii. 273-4                    Barwick, Mr. G. F., ii. 384
     Butler on, ii. 273-4                         Basaiti, Marco, i. 383
     Butler's serious conviction in the matter,   Basel, drum festa at, ii. 2S9
                                                  Basel Museum. See Holbein
    published, ii. 275-6                          Basingstoke, Butler at Mrs. Salter's at,
    reception, ii. 277, 280-8 1, 282                     i. 396
    Richard Garnett and, ii. 278 JUL, 307        Basler Jahrbuch, ii. 411
    Mr. Justice Wills and, ii. 281               Basechej La, ii. 115
     Timet War Correspondent and, ii. 282-3 Bassano, ii. 372
    Pauli and, ii. 283                           Bastille, i. 17
    Lord Grimthorpe and, ii. 304, 308            Bateman, Lord, i. 48
    analysis of sales of, ii. 311                Bates, Henry Walter, and Butler, ii. 20-2 1
     The Guardian and, ii. 356                   Bateson, William, MendeTt Principles of
    and the Iakin coin, ii. 386-7                        Heredity, i. 318
                                                     Materials for the Study of Variation, ii. 97
 B. for Butler, i. 249                               and H. F. Jones's paper on Butler, ii. 42 1
 Bach, i. 37, 49, 50, 51                             at the fourth Erewhon dinner, ii. 424
    and Butler in N.Z., i. 85                    Bateson, William Henry (Master of St.
     Rockstro on, ii. 92                                 John's ColL, Camb.), i. 45
 " Backbiter," ii. 266-7                         Bath, ii. 253
 Bacon, Francis, " the Pecksniff of his Bath and Wells, Bishop of, at Henry
        age," ii. 75                                     Hoare's (1873), i. 198
 Baden-Baden, ii. 40                             Bather, Ven. Archdeacon Edward, at
 Badrutt, Caspar (St. Moritt), i. 419                   Meole Brace, i. 10, 35
 Baker, John H., and the entry into                 marries Mary Butler, i. II
        Erewhon, i. 102, 151, ii. 363                Butler's father his curate, i. 13
    and Butler in Rome, ii. 391                     his remark on Canon Butler's driving,
    at the Erewhon dinners, ii. 419-20, 424             i. 23
 " Ballad of Wednesbury Cocking," i. 348, Bather, Mrs. Edward, i. 10, II, 21, 23
        389, ii. 255                                Butler's note on her, i. 35-6, 40,
Ballantine, Eleanor. See Ruddock                         199
Ballantine, William (died 1852), i. 229          Bather, Rev. Henry, i. 355
Ballantine, Mr. Serjeant William, i. 229         Bather, John Taylor, ii. 402
Ballantyne's, ii. 314, 425                       Bayeux, Butler at (1883), i. 391
Ballard, Thomas, i. 138-9                       " Be the day weary," ii. 5, 422
    and the Bellini heads, ii. 32                Beaconsfield, Benjamin Disraeli, Lord,
   and Rembrandt's "Staalmeesters," ii.                 and H. S. Marks, i. 276
                                                    and Miss Savage, i. 287
Ballasore Road, i. 7                                Mrs. Warren on his novels, i. 305
Balois, ii. 289                                     Miss Buckley on his death, i. 360
Balzac, Honore de, and Miss Savage, i.              and Lord Lawrence, i. 360
        190, ii. 209                                Butler on, ii. 75
   a key to, ii. 127                                on Gladstone, ii. 439
Bank Holiday, a human, ii. 94, 430              Beale, Sir W. P., crosses the Atlantic with
Baptism, Butler and, i. 61, 176, 178                   Butler, i. 212
Baranca, i. 307                                     Butler meets Joseph Chamberlain at his
Barcelona, Albergo del Falcone at, ii. 55              house, i. 274-5
Barker, afterwards Broome, Lady, i. 103             Butler visits Alfred Tylor with, i. 410
Barmouth, i. 12                                     and Mr. W. H. Gray, ii. 397
Barnard, Fred, i. 138                               at Butler's funeral, ii. 400
Barnard's Inn, H. F. Jones and, i. 361,             at the Erewhon dinners, ii. 424, 428
       ii. 81, 346                              Beamish,      R., i. 293
   Tom the Watchman at, i. 361-2, ii. 302 Becker, Miss Lydia, and Butler, i. 417
   Butler at, ii. 415-16                        Bedford Park, i. 417
Barmtone, ii. 414                               Bceching, Rev. H. C., ii. 373 and note
Barry, Rev. William, " Samuel Butler of Beer, Uncle James and the, i. 5
       Erewhon," i. xxviii                      Bees, ii. 417

              BEETHOVEN — BONAPARTE (L.)                                                       479
Beethoven, i. 37, 49                       Biaggini, Emanuele, letter to Butler on
   Butler'* note on, i. 50, 51                   the topography of the Odyssey, ii.
   his "Romance in F," i. 225, 444-5             •33-5
   Mils Kennedy and the " simple chord        and
                                              introduces
                                              Butler
                                              death"a
                                                    Butler,
                                                    Gladstone,
                                                    The
                                                      of,
                                                       meets
                                                        Nausicaa,"
                                                         Authoress,
                                                           ii.Butler
                                                                ii.
                                                                277
                                                                  him,ii. to225
                                                                     157,   ii.
                                                                             ii.159
                                                                                Ingroja,
                                                                                 138
                                                                                  277
                                                                                  147     ii. 160
      of Beethoven," i. 348
   one of the Seven Humbugs of Christen
      dom, i. 364-5
   his music and Butler's, ii. 38
   in "Rambling! in Cheapside," ii. IOI
   and Ufysses, ii. 356
   and Mrs. Bridges, ii. 405               Bible, John Worsley makes a new trans
" Before Jehovah's awful throne," i. 22          lation
                                              Miss        of theand
                                                      Savage          N.T., the,i. i.16262, 315-16,
Belgium, Butler's first visit to, i. 25
      ii. 284
Belgrave    Mansions, Grosvenor Gardens,          331,421-2
                                              God and the, ii. 374
Bell, George, and Sons, and The Authoress, Bickley, Mr. (B.M.), ii. 310
      »• 273-4. *75                        Biella, ii. 87, 100
" Belle Cavaliere, La," i. 202             Bingham, Notts., i. 1, 13
Belle Hiline, La, i. 273                   Bird 0* Freedom, ii. 5
Bellenden, William, i. x                   Birdwood, Sir George, ii. 268
Bellini heads, Butler and the, ii. 26-7    Birmingham, i. 8
   his paper on, in The Athenaeum, ii. 30     Elijah produced there (1846), i. 28
     fill.                                 Birrell, Mr. Augustine, ii. 336, 420
   photographs taken, ii. 58               Biscay, Bay of, Miss Savage's umbrella
   and Ricketts and Shannon, ii. 303             floating in the, i. 370
   and Nelson, ii. 330                     Bischoff, Madame, and Baron Merian, ii. 8 5
Bellini, Giovanni, Butler on believing in  Bishop Street (Whitehall estate), ii. 344
      his painting, i. 240, 447, ii. 418   Bishops, Butler on, ii. 40
   and Michelangelo, i. 285                Bishopsbourne, near Canterbury, i, 142
   his pictures at Venice, i. 394          Bixio, Nino, ii. 300
   Butler's desire to put him and Handel   Blackfriars Road, Mrs. Willie's bed in,
      in some other category from Darwin,        sold, i. 432
      i. 408                               Blackheath, Miss Stone's school at, i. 419
Bellini, Jacopo, ii. 31                    Blackstock, Edward, i. 228
Bellinzona, ii. 272                        Blackstock, Thomas, i. 228
Benevolent, Miss Savage on the, i. 305     Blackwood's Magazine, and the Sonnets
Bennett, Arnold, The Old rVives' Tali,           book, ii. 316
      ii. 9                                Blake, William, i. 382
Bennett, J. Sterndale, i. 49, 50           Blakesware, i. 1 1
Benson, Mr. A. C, ii. 358-9                Blakiston, D. Y., i. xix
Benson, E. W., Abp. of Canterbury, Butler  Blavatsky, Madame, ii. 207
      and the Life of, ii. 357 fill,       Bletchingly, i. 290
Bentley, and The Authoress, ii. 273,       Blomfield, C. J., Bp. of London, Butler's
      *75                                        note on, of,
                                              autograph       i. 33ii. 104
Berchem, Nicholas, ii. 296
Bergamo, i. 328                            Blood alone, i. 221
   and Cagnoni, ii. 25, 58                 "Bloody," i. 75, 128, 240, ii. 119
   Sta Maria Maggiore at, ii. 67-8,        Blum, Jean, i. xxvii
      303                                  Blunt, Mr., and Life and Habit, ii. 52-3
Berlin, ii. 296                            Blushing, ii. 3
Bernard, The dogs of the monks of St., ii. Bogue, David, Butler's relations with, i.
       »5°. *55                                  294
Berners Street, Refuge, i. 3 1 1              and Evolution Old and Neva and Un
   and Miss Arabella Buckley, i. 344             conscious Memory, i. 334
   and cherry-eating, i. 357                  and Alps and Sanctuaries, i. 334, 367
Bertoli's honey, ii. 378, 419, 420         Bohemia, atmosphere of, i. 368
Bertram family, i. 173, 199                Bolladore, ii. 106
Bertram, Julius, i. 173, ii. 418           Bologna, Butler on the pictures at, i. 328-9
Berwick, William Hill, Lord, i. 9             Butler's collapse at, ii. 343
Bewsher, Miss (afterwards Mrs. William     Bolton, i. 63
      Carmalt}, i. 229                     Bonaparte, Lucien, his Charlemagne and
Bezique, i. 207                                  Dr. Butler, ii. 72, 77

480          BONAPARTE (N.) — BROADBRIDGE
Bonaparte, Napoleon. See Napoleon               Bridges, Mrs. George L. {contd.)—
 Bonnat, Lion, ii. 296                             and chicory, ii. 231
Bonnets, i. 193                                    Butler's legacy to, ii. 402
Bonney, Dr. T. G., i. xii, xix, 57                 and church and country walk, ii. 404-5
Booker, Miss Betty, ii. 413                        and Miss Butler, ii. 405 Jill.
Boohman, The, articles on Butler in, i.        Bridges, Robert, i. xii, 14
       xxv, xxix                                   Butler on his poems, ii. 35, 320 foil.
Booth, R. B., Five Tears in New Zealand            correspondence with Butler, ii. 309,
      quoted as to Butler in N.Z., i. 86-7,
       ii. 79                                  Brigands and women, ii. 272
Borgo-Sesia, ii. 164                            Briggs, Mra. (editor of The Drawing Room
Bormio, ii. 1o6                                       Gazette), i. 143, 146, 221
Borromeo, S. Carlo, i. 56, 283                 Bright, John, i. 410
Boscombe, ii. 183-4                            Brighton, i. 198, ii. 260, 411
Boss, Mrs., and the wash, i. 243               British Association and BufTon, i. 310
   her sweet morsels, i. 392-3                    and Lord Salisbury, ii. 190-91
   and Mrs. Willie, i. 432, 433                   and Francis Darwin, ii. 425
   Butler's note on, ii. 1 1                   British Association of Homoeopathy, ii.
   and the Horn, ii. 378, 380                         420
   her sayings, ii. 470-71                   " British Journal ofHomoeopathy, i. 130
Bossuet, i. 202                                British Museum, no issues of The Drawing
Boufflers, Madame de, i. 202                          Room Gazette at, i. 143, 158
Boulogne, Butler's Christmas visits to, i.        entry in the Catalogue under Thomas
       366, ii. 102, 197, 283, 322, 360              Savage, i. 197
   R.F.A. at, ii. 431                             Miss Savage's book and, i. 242
    Butler's packing inventory for, ii. 472       Butler's habit of working there, i. 249,
Boun-ar-bashi, ii. 219                                254, ii. 256, 320
Bourgeois Gentilhomme, he, and Narcissus, i.      Miss Savage at, i. 250, 255, 338, 359
                                                  electric light installed, i. 294
Bovill, Mrs. Alfred. See Grosvenor,               Butler and Miss Arabella Buckley at, i.
       Hon. Mrs. R. C.                                342-4, 360-61
Bovir, name adopted by some of the                Butler's investigations at, with regard
      Tabachetti family, ii. 67                      to Shelley's death, i. 387-8
Bow, ii. 433                                      umbrellas at, i. 397, 399-400
Bowen, C. C, i. 102                               MS. letter from Handel about South
Bowman (oculist), i. 129                             Sea stock, i. 414
Box and Fix, ii. 23                               and Frost's Lives, ri. 65-6
Brabazon, John, i. 104, ii. 104                   heating apparatus at, ii. 124
Brading, i. 192                                   Butler happier there than anywhere
Bradley, Dean, and Job, i. 379-80                    else, ii. 247
Bradshaw, Rev. J., 1. 28                          Frenchmen mollified at the name of,
Bradshaw, Rev. M., i. 16                             ii. 269
Brahms, i. 285                                    Fernand Henry at, ii. 335
Brain, Miss Savage and the, i. 203-4              Butler and Alfred at, ii. 345-6
Branckcr, Mr., ii. 259                            Butler and the Coin Room, ii. 386-7
Bread pills, i. 107                               water-colours by Butler exhibited at, ii.
" Break your child's will," i. 20                    428
Breakfast at Trapani, ii. 292                  British Museum, gifts to the, ii. 85, 306,
Brentford, i. 16                                     320
Bridges, George L., i. 14                         James Butler's Letters and Journal, i. 7
Bridges, Mrs. George L. (Harriet Fanny            Issues of The Press, N.Z, i. 101
      Butler), i. 11, 14                          Hocken's Bibliography of N.Z. literature,
   at Ventnor, i. 243                                i. 102
   moves to Shrewsbury, i. 243-4                  The Evidencefor the Resurrection, i. 117
   and Lady Butler, i. 367-8                      Letter to T. W. G. Butler, i. 234
   Butler and, at Wilderhope, i. 393, ii.         Kosmos and Erasmus Darwin, i. 327-8
      3S7>//.                                     Dr. Butler's letters and papers, ii. 252
   and Mrs. Thomas Jones, i. 419                  Rembrandt Exhibition Catalogue, ii. 296
   and the wrong envelopes, ii. 5                 Faesch's Autokiog. Shizzen, ii. 411
   and Mrs. Weldon, ii. 6                         Pictures and sketches by Butler, ii. 434
   and Butler's sketches, ii. 6                Broadbridge, Miss (afterwards Mrs. Charles
   and Narcissus, ii. 7                              Gogin). See Gogin, Mrs. Charles

                 BROADWOOD — BUTLER (MARY)                                                                  481
 Broadwood, i. 234                                              " But the sea-fowl is gone to her nest, " i.
 Broglie, pronunciation of, i. 197                                     3S'
 Bronchitis, i. 274, ii. 364                                    Butcher and Lang, their translation of the
 Brontf, Charlotte, i. 286                                             Odyssey, ii. 105, 108, 132
 Brooke, Stopford A., i. 212                                    Butcher, The Misses, ii. 132
 Brookwood, ii. 284, 285                                        Butler family, i. 1-15
 Broome, Sir F. N., i. 103, 133                                    pedigree, i. 1 5
 Brougham, significance of a, ii. 355                           Butler river, i. 92
 "Brown-Cap," ii. 215                                           Butler,i. 1Alice (wife of William Butler I.),
 Brown, Ford Madox, Butler and, i. 437-8
 Brown, Oliver Madox, Butler and, i. 437                        Butler, Alice (baptized 1693), i. 1
    D. G. Rossetti on, i. 438                                   Butler, Charles (fourth son of William
 Browne, Mr. Harblot, ii. 23                                           Butler II.), i. 2, 4
 Browne, Philip (drawing- master at                             Butler, Charles S. (Butler's nephew), i. 14
       Shrewsbury), i. 41-2, 44                                 Butler, Deborah (daughter of William
 Browning, Elizabeth Barrett, Butler and,                              Butler II.), i. 4, 7
            143 Odyssey, ii. 309
    andi. the                                                   Butler, Eliza Fortune (daughter of Samuel
                                                                       Butler I.), i. 4
 Browning, Robert, "all thil eulogy of                          Butler, Elizabeth (Butler's niece and wife
    Butler
    at
    Miss
   and the
        St.Tie
             Savage
              Brownings,"
               and,
                Lady
              Moritz,
                    ii.on
                        or
                         i.321
                             tie
                               poem
                                 i.Tiger
                            a419-20,143of,ii.f,i.372
                                                 ii.338
                                                      24:             of Major R. B. Phillipson).             See
                                                                      Phillipson, Mrs. R. B.
                                                                Butler, Frances Mary (daughter of Samuel
                                                                       Butler I.). See Freer, Mrs. General
                                                                Butler, Harriet (wife of Rev. Archdeacon
 Broxsell, Lucy (wife of William Butler                               Lloyd). See Lloyd, Mrs. Archdeacon
       III.). See Butler, Mrs. William, III.                    Butler, Harriet Fanny (S. Butler's sister
 Broxsell, Nathaniel, i. 2                                            and wife of George L. Bridges). See
 Brussels and Tabachetti, ii. 150                                     Bridges, Mrs. George L.
 Bruton Street, ii. 284                                         Butler, Henry (of Cawston, near Dun-
 Buckley, Miss Arabella (afterwards Mrs.                              church, married 1580), i. 1
       Fisher), i. xii, 104-5, i1^'1?                           Butler, Henry Montagu (Master of Trin.
   on
   Butler's
   andthe
   the    Richard
         Lord  Darwin-Butler
                sparring
                 Lawrence
                      Garnett,
                             matches i.quarrel,
                                 episode, with,
                                         344         i. 360-61
                                                i. 382  342-4         Coll., Camb.), i. 49, 50
                                                                Butler, Henry Thomas (Butler's nephew),
                                                                      i. 14
                                                                  and Mr. Gladstone's postcards, ii. 225
 Buckley, Rev. J. W., i. 316                                      and Butler's will, ii. 403
Buffon, and Charles Darwin, i. 272, ii.                           and a sketch of Langar, ii. 415
                                                               Butler,    Mrs. HenryThomas (AdaWheeler),
                                                                      i. 15
   and45°E-volution Old and New, i. 291,
                                                               Butler,     James
                                                                      Butler          baptized son
                                                                               II.), (second        of William
                                                                                                (1729), i. 2
          Diderot,
          Huxley,310,
   and299/0//.,            371
                      i. 422 319
                                                                  enters East India Company's service,
   44 the ne plus ultra of prose," ii. 306                           '•4
Bullen family, ii. 48                                             his letters and journal on a voyage to
Bullen, Mr. (B.M.), i. 255                                           Calcutta, i. 4-8
Bullocks, i. 83, ii. 273                                          S. Butler's opinion of him, i. 5, 7-8
BQlow, Baroness von, i. 130-31                                    parallels drawn between him and S.
Bunhill Row, ii. 433                                                 Butler, i. 70-74
Buns, result of a diet of, i. 271                                 and Miss Savage, i. 194
   Butler on climbing poles for, i. 437                           and exorcism at Trapani, ii. 143
Bunyan, John, and the Iliad, ii. 207                           Butler, Joan (Butler's great-niece), i. 15
Burbury, Samuel Hawksley, i. 31                                Butler, Bp. Joseph, Analogy, i. 78, 156,
   Butler's letters to, ii. 95-7, 260 Jill.                          243, ii. 439, 470
Burd, Dr., i. 393, ii. 45                                            i. 15Kathleen (Butler's great-niece),
                                                               Butler,
Burd, Miss, i. 396
Burgarella family, ii. 141                                     Butler, Mary (daughter of William
BOrgenstock, ii. 247                                                 Butler II.), i. 4
Burgon, Dean, ii. 304                                          Butler, Mary (daughter of Dr. Butler and
Burmah, i. 71, 75                                                    wife of Rev. Archdeacon Edward
Burtt, Rev. E. H., ii. 213, 2:5, 216, 327                            Bather). See Bather, Mrs. Edward
"Busy Bees" (Fetter Lane), ii. 167                             Butler, Mary (S. Butler's sister), i. 11,
Buszard's, ii. 125                                                    •4
       VOL. II                                                                                      2 I

482             BUTLER (MARY) — BUTLER (S.)
Butler, Mary (coittd.)—                                     Butler, Dr. Samuel {contd.)—
   her epistolary style, i. 156, 277, 288-9,                   his letters in verse to Tillbrook, ii.
       329, ii. 392-3                                              253"4                          , ,.  ¦¦
   Canon Butler living with, 1. 243                            Butler and adverse criticism of him, u.
   Butler and, at Wilderhope, i. 393, ii.                          266-7
                                                               and Longmans, ii. 276
   her
   and     Mri. Bridges,
   in Butler's
          Carol,
          Narcissus,
                   ii.
                    will,
                       6-7            405/1//.
                        ii. ii.7 ii.402                        and Bishop Street, ii. 344
                                                               his spoons, ii. 403
                                                               See motto,
                                                               his           ii. and
                                                                      also Lift  421 Litters of Dr. &rcar/
   and
    deathA immortality,
              Kalmdar
             of, ii. 433 fir         406-7 ii. 421 foil.
                               ii. Lads,                           Butler
                                                            Butler, Mrs. Dr. Samuel (Harriet Ap-
                                                                   thorp), i. 9
 Butler, Mary (S. Butler's niece), i. 1 5                   Butler, Samuel (1835- 1902), autobio
 Butler, Patrick Henry Cecil (Butler'i                             graphical material, i. v fill.
        great-nephew), i. 1 5, ii. 42 1                         birth, i. 1
 Butler, Samuel, I. (third »on of William                       christening, i. 18
    succeeds
        Butler his
                 II.),father
                          baptired  in the
                                         (1733),     2
                                           familyi.estates,     earliest recollections, i. 19
                                                                early life, i. 19 fill.
        >• 4                                                    first visits to Italy, i. 25-7, 44, 56
    his children, and death (1806), i. 4                        at school at Allesley, i. 3 1
    Dr. Butler's letters to, ii. 265                            and at Shrewsbury, i. 32, 37-43
 Butler, Dr. Samuel (S. Butler's grand                          first hears the music of Handel, i. 36
        father), i. 1                                           at St. John's College, Cambridge, i. 45
    his note on his grandfather and other                          foil.
        members of the family, i. 2                             first literary efforts, i. 47, 55-7
    birth (1774J, i. 3                                          refuses ordination, i. (to fill.
    epitaph on his parents, i. 3                                emigrates to New Zealand, i. btjfolL
     S. Butler on, i. 3, 19, ii. 71///.                         renounces Christianity, i. 98
     career, i. 8-10                                            meets Charles Paine Pauli, i. 106 fill.
     death (1839), i. 9, 19                                     returns home, i. 107 foil.
     his children, i. 10-14                                     settles in London, i. 112
     his taste in bread, i. 1 1                                  becomes an art-student, i. infill.
     christens his grandson in water from                       meets Miss Savage, i. 142
         the Jordan, i. 18                                      death of his mother, i. 188-9
     his bet with a wine-merchant, i. 29                         invests in Hoare's companies, i. 195
     his Italian pictures and "Family                               foil.
         Prayers," i. 115                                        in Canada, i. 211 fill.
     his Italian journals, i. 386-8                              financial crisis, i. 222 fill., 244-5,
     " as good a man as ever lived," ii. 39                          3>3-»5
     his Geography and Atlas, ii. 50                             meets H. F. Jones, 1. 231, 235
     his silver plate, ii. 50-51                                 end of his career as an art-student, i.
     his Atlas in the cellar at Clifford's Inn,                      254
         ii. 51                                                  death of Miss Savage, 1. 439
     his farm at Harnage, 11. 51-2                               financial difficulties at an end on the
     Butler's misapprehension of his char                            death of his father, ii. 46
         acter, ii. 51, 265                                      engages Alfred Emery Cathie as clerk,
     his correspondence handed over to                               ii. 46
         Butler by his sisters, ii. 71                           first visit to Sicily, ii. 13S
     compared with Butler, ii. 73 fill.                          goes to Greece and the Tread, ii,
     his temper, ii. 78                                              217/0//.
     and Shrewsbury, ii. 80                                      death of Pauli, ii. 283
      Butler and his correspondence, ii. 82-3,                   last illness, ii. 388/0//.
          '73- 252                                               death and funeral, ii. 399///.
     and the Aeschylus quarrel, 11. 132 and                      will, ii. 402-3
         note                                                 Butler, Samuel (1835-1 t>oi),Cktsracttristus,
      and "The Humour of Homer," ii. 132                             i. 215-16, ii. 9-10, 73/0//.
      at Rome in 1822, ii. 242                                   accounts, i. v, 373, 384, 390
      and Jeudwine, ii. 252, 287                                  appearance, i. 107, 395, 396, ii. 118
      his letters and papers given to the                        attitude towards celebrated men, i.
         British Museum and other libraries,                         306-7
         "• *5*. 345"fi                                          breathing, i. 288, 361

                 BUTLER (S.) — BUTLER (MRS. T.)                                           483
  Butler, Samuel, Characteristic (coma'.)—       Butler, Rev. Thomas (contd.)—
      clothe., i. 107, 344, 375, ii. 18-19,          his behaviour when S. Butler refuses
          119, 179-fOi 345                               ordination, i. 61-9
      complexion, ii. 247                            his advances for S. Butler's sheep-run,
      copying letters, i. vii                            i. 89-95
      didactic, i. 214                               instals New Zealand plants at Langar,
      flower*, ii. 404                                   i. 116, 128
      foot trouble, ii. 239, 295, 301               restores Langar Church, i. 116, ii. 414,
      gaiety, i. 286                                     416
      genius, i. 215, 371, ii. 78                   and Ernohm, i. 155-6, 159, 273-4
      giddiness, ii. 208, 235, 301-2, 355, 405      and the Whitehall estate, i. 166-9,
     hair-brushing, ii. 47                               W foil; ii* fill-
     handwriting, ii. 118                           introduced into The Fair Haven, i. 177
     health, i. 110-11, 215, 361, 391, 393,         resigns the living of Langar, i. 243
         430, 439, ii. 239, 342-3, 353,             read none of his son's books except
         jtifoll.                                       A First Tear, i. 273
     homoeopathist, ii. 412, 420                    and Life and Habit, i. 273-4
     humour, ii. 74-6                              and Woodsias, i. 279
     "incarnate bachelor," i. 140, ii. 14,          his meanness, i. 314-15, 334
         109                                       and "The Ballad of Wednesbury
     isolation, ii. 80                                  Cocking," i. 348, 389
    kindness and courtesy, i. 286, ii. 180         and Shelley's storm, i. 387-8
     library, ii. 320                              and the hour of Butler's birth, i. 388-9
    a magpie, ii. 84                               failing in health, i. 393-4
    mode of life, ii. 256-7                        and Miss Savage's story about the
    nervous and diffident, i. 107                       Parable of the Good Samaritan, i.
    noises in his head, i. 130, 384, 430                401
    note-book habit, i. v foil; 373, ii.          seriously ill, i. 401
        3>5. 353                                   partially recovers, i. 402, 405, 424, 433,
    photography, ii. 60                                 439
    a poet, ii. 78, 130                            last illness and death (1886), ii. 44-5
    pugnacity, i. 277                              S. Butler's obituary notice of, ii. 45
    reverence, ii. 74-6                            his will, ii. 46
   the reverse of acquisitive, I. 400, ii.        and Canon Street, ii. 344
        320                                       and the honey and liqueur episodes, ii.
   rewriting habit, ii. 76                              377. 378
   saintliness, ii. 180                        Butler,      Mrs. Thomas
                                                       S. Butler's           i. 1
                                                                    mother),(Fanny  Worsley,
    sincerity, i. 286
   smoking, ii. 168-9, '76-7> *57i 2S%             her marriage, i. 13
   style, ii. 76-7, 295, 309                       her children, i. 14
   sympathy, ii. 178, 180                          her lineage, i. 16, 17
   temper, i. 215, ii. 78-80                           i. 19/0//. into The Way of All Flesh,
                                                  introduced
   tidiness, ii. 22, 34
   unsociable, i. 116, 129, 130, 417,             introduced into The Fair Haven, i. 24,
       437-8                                           "77
   walks, i. lit) foil., ii. 257                  her ingenious method of deciphering the
Butler, Samuel (1835-1902), Worhs. See                MS. of A First Year, i. 72
       their various titles                       her illness, i. 185
Butler, Rev. Thomas (S. Butler's father),         her death, i. 188-9, <¦¦ 4"5
       i. 1, 10                                Butler, Thomas, II. (Butler's brother), i.
  his birth (1806) and baptism, i. 11                  '+
   at school at Shrewsbury, i. 12                 and grammars, i. 38-9
   at St. John's College, Cambridge, i. 13        at Shrewsbury, i. 41
  ordained, i. 1 3                                at Cambridge, i. 48-9
   returns to Shrewsbury, i. 13                   his declension of "quivis," i. 51
  marriage, i. 13                                 emigrate?, i. 62
  presented to the living of Langar-with-         Butler a trustee of his marriage settle
       Bramston, i. 13                                ment, i. 438
  career, i. 13-14                                death, i. 438-9
  introduced into The Way of All Flesh, i.        his travelling library, ii. 22
       infill.                                 Butler.Mrs. Thomas, 1 1. (Henrietta Rigby),
  his knowledge of music, i. 27, ii. 153              i. 14

484                BUTLER (MRS. T.) — CANADA
Butler, Mr». Thomas, II. (eontd.) —            Calvert, Mr., ii. 213, 217 fill.
   Butler's letter to, about her husband's     Calypso, and her island, ii. 139, 157, 233
      library, ii. 22                               fill., 262
   and Butler's will, ii. 4.02, 403            Cam river, i. 83
Butler, Thomas William Gale, at                Cambridge, Butler at, i. 45 fill.
      Heatherley's with S. Butler, i. 134-5,      and bullocks, i. 83
      ii. 322                                     Messiah conducted by Handel there, i.
   S. Butler's letter to, on the Life and            230
      Habit theory, i. 233-4, >'• 43> 444-5       Butler and Kennedy at, i. 347-8
Butler, William, I. (of Thurlaston), i. 1         and Butler's music, i. 384
Butler, William, II. (grandfather of Dr.             Life of
                                                  Butler      Dr. collecting
                                                           there              81
                                                                  Butler, ii. material for the
       Samuel Butler), born (1690), i. I
    baptized (1693), i. 1                         Butler on, ii. 198-9
    buys The Stone House, Kenilworth, i. 2     Cambridge, Fitzvjilliam Museum, i. 83
    Dr. Butler's note on him, i. 2             Cambridge, Green Street, i. 231
   agent to Lords Leigh and Hyde, i. 3         Cambridge, St. Johrfs College, Butler's
    his marriages, i. 2                              portrait at, i. zix, 280, ii. 424
   his death (1760) and epitaph, i. 3             Dr. Butler enters, i. 9
   his children, i. 3-8                           Mr. Jeudwine appointed by, i. 9
 Butler, Mrs. William, II. (Ann Radburn,          Butler's father at, i. 12-13
       first wife of William Butler II.), i. 2       40, 62chance of a fellowship, i. 39-
                                                  Butler's
 Butler, Mrs. William, II. (Mary Tayler,
       second wife of William Butler II.),        Butler enters, i. 45
       i. 2                                       Latin disputations at, i. 46-7
Butler, William, III. (father of Dr.              Simeonites, i. 47
       Samuel Butler), born (1727), i. 2          Lady Margaret Boat Club, i. 52-3, ii.
   does not succeed his father, i. 3                 419
    a linen-draper, i. 3                          Butler's affection for, i. 56-7
    his marriage, i. 3                            his rooms at, i. 57
   his death (1815) and epitaph (composed         his adnotated Greek Testaments in the
       by Dr. Samuel Butler), i. 3                   library of, i. 60, ii. 429
 Butler, Mrs. William, III. (Lucy Brox-           some of Dr. Butler's letters given to,
       sell), i. 2, 3                                ii. 252
Butler, William (Butler's brother, died           and the Life tf Dr. Butler, ii. 259
       in infancy), i. 14, 19, ii. 414            H. F. Jones's paper at, ii. 421
Butler, Gen. Sir William Francis, and             copies of The Evidence fir the Resurrec
       Alps and Sanctuaries, i. 367-9                tion given to, ii. 429
Butler, William Henry (son of Samuel              water-colours by Butler given to, ii.
       Butler I.), i. 4, ii. 52                      429
Butler, Mrs. William Henry, i. 4, ii. 52,      Cambridge, School of Art, i. 63-4
       403                                     Cambridge, Trinity Hall, i. 230
Byle's eating house, ii. 69                    Cambridge, Union Society, i. 48
                                               Cambridge, University Library, i. xxiii, 47
Cabasino, Avvocato, ii. 161                    Cambridge, University Tress, and the Life
Caccia, ii. 225, 249                              . of Dr. Butler, ii. 196, 198
Cadenabbia, story of the parrots at, i. 42 1   Cambridge History of English Literature,
 Caen, i. 391                                        i. xxix
Caging thoughts, Butler on, ii. 315            Cambridge Magazine, The, "Samuel Butler,
Cagnoni, Antonio, Butler and, at Varallo,            and the Simeonites " published in, i.
       ii. 24-5                                      xxviii, 47, ii. 434
   his Bergamo,
   at    career, ii. ii.2567-8                    account of sixth Erewhon dinner in, ii.
                                                     4*9
Calatafimi, Butler meets Ingroja at, it.       Camelias, ii. 417
       160                                     Camera lucida, i. 377-8, 391
   its modern history, ii. 161                 Camino, ii. 288-90
   Garibaldi at, ii. 162, 243                  Campo Felice, ii. 270, 27 1
   Albergo Centrale at, ii. 328                Canada, Butler in, i. nzfoll., ii. 124
   Butler honoured at, ii. 409- 1 o            Canada196 Tanning Extract Company, L
Calcutta, i. 4, 7
C.iM.io, i. 109, ii. 182                          Butler deputed to go to Canada            ta
Calvert, Dr., and Paget's Book, ii. 265              investigate its affairs, i. ais
     fill.                                        masses said for it, i. 214

                               CANADA — CATHIE                                                              485
Canada       Tanning        Extract     Company Carter, Philip, i. 16
       (contd.)—                                Cartwright, Bp., i. 30
   some chance of saving it, i. 215             Cary, Francis Stephen, i. 114-15
   Butler buys back shares in, i. 2 1 5             and Eyre Crowe, ii. 38
   position hopeless, i. 222                    Cary, Henry Francis, i. 9, 114
   failure, i. 222, 236, 241                    Casabianca, i. 420, ii. 471
   Butler's losses in, i. 244                   Casale-Monferrato, Butler at the Albergo
   Pauli's shares in, ii. 2S6                           Rosa Rossa, ii. 1 10-12, 240, 283,
Candidc, Jones and, i. 286                              290-91
Cannan, Gilbert, Samuel Butltr : a critical         Butler at, ii. 246, 272, 288, 303, 329
      study, i. xxix, ii. 76                        Butler ill at, ii. 343
   at the seventh Erewhon dinner, ii. 430          Jones at, ii. 352
Cannero, ii. no                                 Cass, Thomas, i. 128-9, •'• 434
Cannon Street Station, i. 363                   CasselTs Magazine and Wordsworth, i. 33 1
Cannoni, ii. 352-3                              Castelvetrano, ii. 160, 245
Canon Street (Whitehall estate), ii. 344           the four Frenchmen at, ii. 269
" Cantab " (pseudonym adopted by Butler         Castiglione d' Olona, ii. 40
      in the Examiner correspondence, " A       Castrogiovanni, ii. 185
      Clergyman's Doubts"), i. 296/0//.         Castronovo, Father, ii. 135
Canterbury Association, i. 70                   Casts, i. 104
Canterbury Plains, i. 75                        Cat, the funny man and the, ii. 372-3
Canterbury
   Butler emigrates
               Settlement,
                        to, i.started,
                               70-7 1 i. 70     Catania, ii. 145
                                                   and
                                                   his
                                                   letters
                                                   engaged
                                                Cathie,    Butler's
                                                            Alfred
                                                          musictoaslessons,
                                                                   H.
                                                                    clerk,
                                                                     Emery,
                                                                      house-property,
                                                                      temper,
                                                                       F. Jones,
                                                                             ii. i.46
                                                                            ii.         216
                                                                                        ii. 69,i. 164,
                                                                                   i.59xii             353 167,
Canterbury Standard (N.Z.), ii. 362
Cape of Good Hope, i. 337
"Capronised," ii. 115
      116,British
Cardiff,    426 Association meeting at, ii.
Carey, Capt. Brenton, his connection with
      the death of the Prince Imperial, i.308      "hisIfthe
                                                   at
                                                   and    "little
                                                           Butler's
                                                           Butler
                                                           I Mrs.
                                                        184,  am185,
                                                              Opera in
                                                                     Bovill,
                                                                      hair-cutting,
                                                                    complaint,"
                                                                   toldand
                                                                        the
                                                                         ..."
                                                                      272   dark-room,
                                                                            the  ii.Play,  109
                                                                                         118,
                                                                                      ii.ii.     ii.103
                                                                                                    119,
                                                                                                     ii.
                                                                                                      1 1 5103130,
                                                                                             ii.115
   his letter to The Christian, i. 308-9
   Miss Savage on him, i. 309-10
Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn, i. 248
Cariani, and the Bellini heads, ii. 31
Carlo Alberto, King of Italy, ii. 114
   statue of him at Casale, ii. 114                      195-6
Carlton Hill, ii. 412                              and astronomy, ii. 125
Carlyle, Thomas, a wretch, i. 2t6                  and Aci-Reale, ii. 156
   his French Revolution stolen, i. 354            and La Musa, ii. 168
   Butler on his death, i. 360                     and Butler at the Crcightons", ii. 17$foil.
   Miss Savage and Butler on him and               his marriage, ii. lilfoll.
      Mrs. Carlyle, i. 429                         his letter to Butler on it, ii. 183
   his position and Butler's contrasted, ii        his first child, ii. 196, 209
      5°                                           his relations with Butler, ii. 204, 226,
   and Maeterlinck,
Carmalt,                 ii. 276 Mrs. Thomas
            Ellen (afterwards                           *5°-7. 345-7
                                                   and Hans Faesch, ii. 206, 297
      Jones). See Jones, Mrs. Thomas               his outings on the Continent with
Carmalt, Rev. William, i. 228                           Butler, ii. 208-10, 246-7
   his wives, i. 229                               and the tortoises, ii. 214
Carpaccio, at Venice, i. 394                        " pulverized," ii. 273-4
   his " Dispute of St. Stephen," ii. 31           his photograph of Butler reproduced, it
   and the Bellini heads, ii. 58                        282
Carpenter, Dr. William Benjamin, and                his teeth, ii. 299
      spiritualism, i. 127, 316, 318                and Erewhon Revisited, ii. 341, 345, 347
Carraway seed, ii. 4                               and Alfred Street, ii. 344
Carrots, i. 404                                     his notes to Butler, ii. 345-6
Carruthers, .Mr., at the Linnean Society,           Butler's note on him, ii. 345-7
      '•433                                         his daughters, ii. 353, 433
Carshalton. See Tylor, Alfred                       and Kipling, ii. 365
Carter, Hannah (daughter of Philip Carter           and Butler's teeth, ii. 385
      and wife of Samuel Worsley). See              brings Butler home in 1902, ii. 393-4
      Worsley, Mrs. Samuel                          and Butler's death, ii. 399-400

 486                      CATHIE — CLARK (SIR A.)
 Cathie, Alfred Emery {contd.)—                                Chandfontaine, i. 15"
    and
    settles
    Butler's
          the    Mile
          Butler's
             inErewhon
                legacies
                      athea,
                         End,
                           to,
                             dinners,     413ii. 419
                                ii.ii.ii.400-401
                                         402                   Cherry-eating, i. 355, 357, 358
                                                               Cherryhinton, i. 83
                                                               Cheshunt, i. 16
                                                               Chestnuts, Miss Savage on, i. 379
 Cathie, Alfred John, ii. 272, 431                             Chianti, ii. 236
    his letters from the Front, ii. 43 1 fill.                 Chiavenna, ii. 55, 59
 Cathie,
    and
    engaged
    Butler's
          Alfred's
           Mrs.by   Butler,
               legacies
                   Ann,
                      baby,and
                           to,ii.
                               ii.ii.
                                    Butler's
                                       196,
                                        69402,235wife, ii. 63
                                               403               fresco at the Albergo Grotta Crimee at,
                                                                     ii. 101
                                                                 and the Odyssey theory, ii. ic6
                                                              Chichester, Bp. of, and Butler at Faido,
 Catholic
       ButlerQuarterly
                 in, i. 406Review, Mivart on                         ii. 40
                                                              Chicory subject, ii. 231
 Cator and Campbell (N.Z. friends), i, 129                    "Childar, Catharine," ii. 214
 Cats,
    Purdoe,
         two old,
               i. 176i. 1 64                                  China, old, i. 253
                                                              Chios, ii. 2 1 7
    Miss Savage's, i. 198, 378-9, 421, 428                    Chislehurst, i. 198
    stray, i. 313                                             Chivasso and Tabachetti, ii. 87
    and mulled port, i. 316                                   Chorley Wood, ii. 157-8, 195
    and piano-playing, i. 386                                 "Chow," ii. 56, 58, 61-2
    Butler's, i. 395,4.21, 429, ii. 27,34,40-41               Chowbok, i. 144, 241
   and Clifford's Inn garden, ii. 27, 400                     Christchurch, N.Z., built, i. 70, 75, 76,
    at Monte Oliveto, ii. 86                                        77
Cattle of the Sun, ii. 262                                       land office, i, 83-4
Cava, ii. 146                                                    club, i. 85
Cavour, ii. 113                                                  museum, i. 88, 100
Cawley, Nurse, ii. 400                                           portrait of Butler at, ii. 434
Cawston, near Dunchurch, i. X                                    portrait of Cass by Butler at, ii. 434
Cefalu, Butler at, ii. 144                                    Christendom, ii. 7 note
   and Telepylus, ii. 245-6                                   Christian {The Way of All Flesh), i. 278
   gigantic stones at, ii. 261                                Christian, The, and Capt. Carey, i. 308-9
    and Ravenna, ii. 303                                      Christian Evidence Society, ii. 3 54
"Cellarius" (pseudonym used by Butler),                       Christian Young Women, Miss Savage
       i. 55-6, 101                                                 and the, i. 428, 436
Century Club, Butler's membership, i.                         Christianity, Butler on, i. 96-8, 181, 183,
       130, 280                                                     232, 396. ii. 49, 53, 338
   the " Psalm " recited at, i. 277                           Christ's Hospital and GreatRcx, ii. 81-2
   its connection with the National Liberal                   Chudleigh (N.Z.), ii. 104
       Club, i. 280-81                                        Church, Butler on going to, i. 98, 396-7,
   the man at, who objected to Butler's                             ii. 363
       use of the word "memory," i. 345                          Butler
                                                                 the   lowest
                                                                          on going
                                                                               of theinto the, i. 223,
                                                                                      dissipations, ii. 4436
   and Lewis Morris, i. 417
Cesare, Signor (at Varallo), ii. 61                           Church orchestra {The Way of All Flesh),
Chamberlain, Rt. Hon. Joseph, i. 274-5                              i. 399
Chamfort, quoted, ii. 439                                     Church Stretton, ii. 52
Champagne, the red, of Etna, ii. 182-3                        Church Times, i. 121, 255, 262
Chancery Lane, i. xii, ii, 302                                "Ciao." &«"Chow"
Change, Butler on, i. 391-2                                   Cima, Butler on pictures by, at Parma, i.
Chapman, George, Odyssey, ii. 231                                   394
Chapman Ic Hall, and Erewhtm, i. 148                          Cimmerians, ii. 263
Charing Cross Station, i. 363                                 Civiasco, and La Martina, i. 307
Charles V., Emperor, and Trapani, ii. 142                        H. F. Jones on, ii. 54-5
   and Monte In ice, ii, 194                                     festa, ii. 67
Charles Darwin and Samuel Butler : a Step                        Mile. Vaillant and Miss Scott with
      towards Reconciliation, i. xi, xxvii, 322,                    Butler at, ii. 107-8
      ii. 428                                                 Civil Service Stores, i. 221
Charwomen, i. 220                                             Clacton-on-Sea, ii. 19
Chateau Lafitte, i. 29                                        Clanricarde Gardens, ii. 413
   and Butler's humour, ii. 75                                Clara (cat), i. 379
      ii. 82Margaux and Mrs. GreatRcx,
Chateau                                                       Claret, i. 29
                                                              Clarges Street, i. 231
Chatham Islands, ii. 104                                      Clark, Sir Andrew and Lady, i. 428-9

                        CLARK (H. R.) — COPPO (A.)                                                        4*7
Clark, Herbert Robert, ii. 39;, 401                             Coleridge, Lake, i. 78
Clark, John Willis, i. 47, ii. 81                               Coleridge, Miss M. E., ii. 365
Clark, Joseph Ben well, walks with Butler,                     Coleridge, S. T., and Borromeo, i. 283
   andi.Venice,
   in     Handel,
          289 ii. i.303
         Narcissus,      ii.329 37                                 and Richard Garnett, ii. 280
                                                                   Butler and, ii. 321
                                                               Colico, ii. 59
                                                               Collesano, ii. 270-72
Clarke, Herbert Edwin, and Erewhon, i.                         Collingridge, Miss, and Miss Savage, i.
      152.3                                                           164, 190
         AGod
   andknown, First
                i.the302-3
                      Tear,
                        Known     ii. 71and God the l/n-           her picture, i. 274
                                                                   her Christmas card, i. 316
                                                                   at Miss Savage's funeral, i. 440-41
Cleather, Mr. Leighton, ii. 373                                Colma, i. 307
"Clergyman's Doubts, A," bibliography,                         Colon, i. no
   quoted,
      i. xxiii. 59                                             Columbus and the egg, i. 287
                                                               Colvin, Mr. Sidney, and the Slade Pro
   published in The Examiner, i. 122, 295                             fessorship, ii. 30, 34
     foil.                                                     Colymbia, i. 185-6
   Miss Savage on, i. 299                                      " Come Bacchus, Thou Jack-ass," ii. 253
Clifford, Prof., i. 272                                        "Come, I will write a duodecimo," ii. 71
Clifford Street (Whitehall estate), ii. 344                    44 Come to the sunset tree," i. 20
   illustrations
   his rooms
Clifford's   Inn,    of,
                     Butler
                  there,   i. i.246,
                                   235,
                                   settlesii. in,
                                         366,   419,
                                               284     ii. 46,
                                                  i. 112       Coming Race, The, i. 1 5 5
                                                               Common sense, applied to classics, ii. 278,
                                                                      3>°. 3'9
      326                                                      Company, i. 225
   view from his windows, i. 366, 378                          Competency, Butler's vows of modest, ii.
   garden, ii. 27, 400
   and Clifford Street, Shrewsbury, ii. 344
                                                                      2V
                                                                      Art." See Alps
                                                               " Considerations          andDecline
                                                                                    on the           of Italian
                                                                                              Sanctuaries
   Butler decides to leave, ii. 397
   and Butler's sisters, ii. 408                               Consistency, i. 12, ii. 404
Clifton, Butler at, ii. 35-6                                   Constantinople, ii. 251
Clodd, Edward, i. xii                                          Contagious Diseases Act, and Erewhon, i.
   Memories, i. xxix                                                  148
   and
   Butlerthe
         Grant
         Life
         A     and
         Dr.and,
            Psalm
              National
              Butler,
                    ii.Habit,
                   Allen,
                       of19-20
                            Montreal,
                             ii.Liberal
                                I.266
                                    417     i. 276-7
                                    ii. 433-4
                                            Club,   i. 280     Contemporary Review, Huxley on Animal
                                                                     Automatism in, i. 263
                                                                  on Lamarck and Mivart, i. 291
                                                               " Continually," i. 294
                                                               Contradictions, ii. 10
                                                                     and, Mr.
                                                               Conway,     i. 417and Mrs. Moncure, Butler
Cloven Hoof, i. 189
" Coal Sack" (black Magellan cloud), i. 74                     Conway, Sir W. M., Butler's correspond
Cobbe, Miss Frances Power, i. 291-2                                  ence with, about Holbein, ii. 88
Cobden, Miss, i. 274-5                                         Cook (New Zealand), ii. 79
Cockerell, S. C, and a service-book, i. 3 1                    Cook, C. A., ii. 28
      and note                                                 Cooke, William Russell, Butler's Reynolds
   and Miss Savage's copy of Erewhon, i.                             given to, i. 403
      '5°                                                         Butler's Cuyp given to, ii. 48
   and Erewhon
         Francis Darwin,
                       Revisited,ii.11.425,  339,426340, 341      at Chiavenna, ii. 55
                                                                  and Butler at Boulogne, ii. 102
Cockroaches, ii. 189                                              and Gladstone, ii. 166
Cocq, Frans Banning, ii. 296                                      Butler's letter to, on Maeterlinck, ii.
Cofano, ii. 144                                                       275-6
Coffee, and Madame von Stein, i. 217                              and Alfred Street, Shrewsbury, 11. 344
   in the Troad, ii. 220                                          and Mr. John Roskill, ii. 371
   at Wilderhope, ii. 231, 257/0//.                               at Butler's funeral, ii. 400
Col d' Olen, ii. 57                                               legacy to, ii. 403
Colborne-Veel, Mr. J., ii. 173, 362                            Cooking, i. 215, 217
Colborne-Veel, Miss, i. xii, 100, ii. 386                      Coppo family, ii. 110 foil.
Coldbath Fields, and The Way of All                               in London, ii. 335, 342
      Flesh, ii. 1 1                                              and Butler's last illness, ii. 388-9
Colds, i. 277, 337, ii. 3, 150, 152                            Coppo, Angelo, ii. 283, 290, 352, 353
Colenso, Bp., i. 295                                           Coppo, Angiolina, ii. 353

     488                      COPPO (C.) — DANVERS
      Coppo, Cesare, ii. 28 3                             Creighton, Dr. Mandell (contd.)
        at Camino, ii. 288-9, 29°> 34S                           note, 200
                                                             Butler's   note on, ii. visits
                                                                        subsequent    176-7to, ii. 179 and
         Butler's letter to, ii. 352
         Butler'i advice to, ii. 379
        H. F. Jones and, ii. 410                             and Butler's Odyssey theory, ii. 195
     Cor Ferreum, Garnett's, ii. 279                         and the Life of Dr. Butler, ii. 155
     Corcyra, ii. 133                                       at Lucerne, ii. 303
     Corfu, ii. 133, 211                                    letter to Butler on the Sonnets hook,
     Cori, ii. 155                                              ii. 315-16
     Cork Street, i. 231                                 Creighton, Mrs. Mandell, L xii
     Corn/till Magazine, in New Zealand, i. 126          Cressage, ii. 298
        and the Sonnets, ii. 370, 373                    Crevacuore, ii. 69
     Cornwallis, James, 4th Earl {Bp. of Lich            Crimean War, ii. no, 251
           field), on Bp. Cartwright, i. 30              " Croesus and his Kitchen-maid," ii. 1 36
    Correggio, Butler on his pictures at Parma           Cromwell, Oliver, i. 174, 192, 197
           .'• 394                                       Crosses and Crossing, and The Toilet, i.
    Corrie, Mrs. (afterwards Mrs. Doncaster),                   368-9
            i. 268, 400                                     Butler on, i. 391-1
    Corriere delta Sera, on the Pope's edict               and Ernest, in The Way of All Flesh,
           forbidding masses in the operatic                   i. 392
           style, ii. 24                                Crowe, Eyre, ii. 33, 38
   Corriere Valscsiano, II, i. xxv                      Crowe and Cavalcaselle, and the Bellini
   Corsica, Thomas Butler and, i. 438, ii. 21                 heads, ii. JO foil.
   Cortona, i. 329, ii. 147, 241                        Crusts, i.Palace,
                                                        Crystal      11     " the new building," i. 43
   Cottrell, Canon, i. 102
   Country of the People who are above                            "The
                                                           andDog,"        83-4 the Nieces, and the
                                                                       ii. Aunt,
          Suspicion, i. 350-51
   Courier, Jean Paul, i, 269-70                           and Narcissus, ii. 238
   Cousens and Hatt (Staple Inn), ii. 150-51           Cuckoos, cries of, ii. 329
   Covent Garden pantomime, i. 349                     Curzon Street, ii. 398
   Coventry and Funchal compared, i. 6                 Cusa, ii. 245
   Cowper, William, Alexander Selkirk, i. 351* Cust, Mr. R. H. Hobart, Butler's letter to,
   Cowslips, ii. 404                                          on Ex Voto, ii. 249-50
   Coxhead, Miss, ii. 371, 379                         Custonaci, ii. 144, 147
  Crabbc, George, Butler and, ii. 366-7                    Madonna di, ii. 193
  Cran brook. Lord, at the Shrewsbury                  Cuvier, ii. 269
          Dinner, ii. 39                               Cuyp, Albert, ii. 48
  Crane Court,!. 145, 185                             Cuyp, J. G.. Butler's portrait by, ii. 48
  Craven Hill Gardens, i. 230                         Cuzzoni, and Handel, ii. 91
  Crawford, Mrs., ii. 275-6                           Cyclopes, ii. 134-5, 140, 260
  Crawley, Archdeacon, and Dr. Butler,
 Crawley,
 Crawley,
     and269-70,
         ii.the
            Mrs.
              93Richard,
                 Working
                   Alfred
                 Charles,
                    343 translation
                          Bovill,
                           and
                           Men'stheCollege,
                                  ii.  Darwina,
                                        of Thucy-
                                      93.4, ii. 93i
                                            117       Daffodils, i. 329-30
                                                     Daily Mail, ii. 376
                                                      Daily Nevis, and Erevihon Re-visited it
                                                             356-7
                                                     Daily Telegraph, poetry in, i. 135, ii. 322
                                                          Miss Savage and, i. 262
        dides, ii. 371                               Dale, H., translation of Thucydides, ii. 371
 Crea, and Tabachetti, ii. 57-8, 109-10,             D'All family, ii. 141
        •95- *49.                                    Dallas, W.S,i. 320, 325, 34,, ii. 447/,//.
     and absolution, ii. m                           Darnel Deronda, i. 267
     wine for, ii. 352                               Daniele (guide), ii. 57
     Negri's paper on, ii. 369                       Dante, and H. F. Cary, i. 9
Creating, i. 133                                         one of the Seven Humbugs of Christen
Creighton, Charles, Illustrations of Un                     dom, i. 364
       conscious Memory in Disease, ii. 42               Gladstone and, i. 382
Creighton, Rev. Cuthbert, i. xii                         Butler and, i. 382
    Reminiscences of Butler, ii. 177 foil.              Preda's book on, ii. 84
Creighton, Dr. Mandell, and Alps and                    Butler on, ii. 84-5
       Sanctuaries, ii. 175-6                           in "Ramblings
                                                       recited                   107
                                                                  at Edolo,inii.Cheapside,"  ii. 101
    Butler visits him at Peterborough, ii.
       176                                          Danvers, Mrs. Augustus, i. 248, 376

                           DARB1SHIRE — DEATH                                             489
 Darbishire, A. D., An Introduction to a         Darwin, Charles, The Expression of the
         Biology, i. xxix                              Emotions in Man and Animals (1872),
 Darby (N.Z. period), i. 128                           i. 157
 Dardanelles, ii. 213, 217 fill.                    cost of correcting it in proof, i. 165
 Dardanus, ii. 217                              Darwin, Erasmus (d. 1 802), Zoonomia, i. 272
 Darjeeling, i. 430                                 See also Darwin, Charles, Erasmus
 Darmesteter,
         books, i. James,
                    386 hit notice of Butler's         Darwin
                                                Darwin, Erasmus, at school with Butler's
Dartford, ii. 29                                       father, i, 12
Dartmoor, adders of, i. 330                         Butler visits him, i. 165
Darwin (butcher), ii. 258                       Darwin, Francis, i. xii
Darwin, Charles, at school and at Cam              Butler and, i. 164, 172
        bridge with Butler's father, i. 12         Butler's correspondence with, about Life
    inoculates Butler's father with a taste            and Habit, i. 256 fill,
        for botany, i. 13                          and " Some breeds do," i. 269-70
    Butler's correspondence with (1865), i.        and The Foundations of " The Origin of
         123-5                                         Species," i. 318
    Butler's letters to, on Erewhon, i. 156-8      correspondence with H. F. Jones about
    Butler visits him at Down, i. 157, 165             the Darwin-Butler quarrel, i. jzifill.,
    Butler's note on, i. 165                          ii. 425/0//.
    Butler's
        Fair Haven,
                correspondence
                      i. 186-7, 189
                                 with, on The      and Evolution Old and New (second
                                                      edition),
                                                   Life           i. 371 of„ Charles Darwin, ii.
                                                          and Letters
    and Dr. Butler, i. 189
    and the Seven Humbugs of Christen                  59. 465-6
        dom, i. 365                                "On the Artificial Production of
    his death, i. 370                                 Rhythm in Plants," ii. 116
    Butler's
        75. '3'opinion of, i. 370-71, 408, ii.     and Hering, ii. 425
                                                   "On the Movements of Plants," ii.
    his death and Butler's literary reputa            426
        tion, i. 404                            Darwin, Dr. Robert Waring, i. 12, 13
    Miss Savage proposes that Butler should        his death, i. 33
        write the Life of, i. 422              "Darwin among the Machines" {The
    posthumous machinations of, ii. 66                Press, 13th June 1863), bibliography,
   and Lord Salisbury at the Brit. Ass.,              i. xxi, xxvii
       ii. 190-91                                  published, i. 101
   campanula from Down, ii. 404                    republished, i. 102
Darwin, Charles, The Origin of Species             rewritten, enlarged, and republished as
       (1859), published, i. 99                       "The Mechanical Creation," i. 117
   and Butler's "Dialogue," i. 100                 used in Erewhon, i. 133
   and " Darwin among the Machines,"           Darwin and Modern Science, i. 318-19
       i. 101                                  Darwin Centenary at Cambridge, i. 188,
   Butler on, i. 124, 157                             318-19
   Life and Habit and, i. 257 fill.            " Darwin on the Origin of Species : a
   Butler re-reads in the 3rd ed., i. 271-2           Dialogue" (The Press, 20th Dec.
   "A Clergyman's Doubts" and, i. 295-6               1862), bibliography, i. xxi, xxvii
   Evolution Old and New and, i. Infill.           published, i. 99-101
   Timet Literary Supplement (1909) and,          republished, i. 101
       i. 318-19                                  and Darwin, i. 125
Darwin, Charles, Erasmus Darwin, by Ernst      Davits, Richard Purdoe and Hesketh
       Km use . . . With a preliminary notice         (characters in first draft of The Fair
       by Charles Darwin (1879 an<' J^*7)>            Haven), i. 162
      quarrel between Butler and Darwin        D'Avigdor, Mr., and The Examiner, i. 295
      about Erasmus Darwin and Evolution       Davis, Rowland, i. 76
      Old and New, i. 319/0//, 370-72, ii.             Dr., on i.Indian
                                               Day, Society,       434 fishes at the Linnean
       60, 75. 4*7. W fill-
   Unconscious Memory and, i. 338 fill., ii.   Dazio, Signor, i. 284
      455/0//.                                 Dead Selves, jumping upon, i. 73, ii. 349
   Evolution Old and New (2nd ed.) and,        " Deadlock, The, in Darwinism " (Uni
      i. 370-72, ii- 463                             versal Review), ii. 95, 97, 131
  Luck or Cunning T and, ii. 41, 43            Death, "the most inexorable of all con
  "The Deadlock: in Darwinism " and, ii.             ventions," ii. 44
      95-7                                        See also Life

49Q                 "DEATH BOUND" — DURIO
" Death bound me to her . . .," i. 446,     Doncaster, Robert, i. 400
      ii. 352                                  his funeral, ii. 39
Dedication trousers, ii. 355                   his life insurance, ii. 40
Defencefulness, i. 238, 324                 Doncaster, Mrs., i. 400
Defoe, and the Odyssey, ii. 207                and Robert Doncaster's death, ii. 39-4C
Delirium tremens, ii. 372                      and Butler's wife, ii. 63
Delph Street, ii. 376                          dismissed with a pension, ii. 69
Demodocus, at Edolo, ii. 107                Don-ometer, Garnett a good, ii. 123
   the blind singer, ii. 159-60, 348        Dons, Butler on, ii. 54, 172-3
D' Enrico, Giovanni, ii. 69, 390            Dorchester, i. 83
Dent, E. }., i. xii                         Dorking, i. 178
Dent's Family Prayers, ii. 367              Doulting, near Shepton Mallet, i. a.
Denza, Padre, at Varallo, ii. 107           Dovere, //, ii. 18
Dettingen Te Deum (Handel), Butler on, i,   Dowden, Edward, ii. 318-19
      294-5                                 Down. See Darwin, Charles
Devil, Miss Savage on the, i. 328           Dowson, Dr., Erasmus Darwin, i. 320
   casting him out at Trapani, ii. 143      Draughts, i. 198
   Butler piqued with the, ii. 238          Drawing Room Gazette, i. 143, 145
Devil's Bridge, i. 281                         Miss Savage's review of Erevuhon in, i.
Dewattines, Lucie. See " Madame "                  158
Diabolus ( = the tritonus), ii. 229            in the market, i. 221
Diana ofthe Crossways, i. 148                  Miss Savage's articles in, i. 242
Diaries, Butler's, i. v                     Dray (N.Z.), i. 82
" Diary of 1 Journey through North Italy    Drepane, ii. 133
      to Sicily," i. xi, xxvi               Drew, Miss, i. 220-21
   and Aurigae Drepanenses, ii. 244-5       " Drorings," i. 305
Dickens, and Mr. Harblot Browne, ii. 23     Drum, Basel and the, ii. 289
   and old Matt, ii. 151                    Drummond Castle, ii. 247
Diceionary ofNational Biography, article on Drury Lane, Miss Savage at, i. 337
      Butler, i. xxvii                         Butler at, ii. 345, 368
   attacked, ii. 369, 373                   Dryden, Sir Henry, at the Shrewsbury
Didactic, the sin of being, i. 214                Dinner, ii. 39
Diderot, Miss Savage on, i. 26S-70          Dublin, British Association meeting at. ii.
   as an evolutionist, i. 422, 424                425, 426
Dieppe, Butler and Pauli at, i. 113         Dublin Review, article on Butler in, i.
Digestion, i. 1 1 1                               xxviii
Dilke, Ashton, ii. 371                      Duchess of Connaught, ii. 151
Dillwyn, H., and the Century Club, i.       Dudgeon, Dr. Robert Ellis, a homoeo-
      280                                         pathist, i. 130
Dinant, and Tabachetti, ii. 66, 98, 150,       attends Butler all his life, i. 131
      '53. '73                                 his Colymtia, i. 185-6
Discobolus, i. 201, 218-20                     and Dr. Allbutt, ii. 50
Disgrazia, i. 26, 27, ii. 112                  letter to Butler on "Luck" and
Disraeli. See Beaconsfield                        "Cunning," ii. 190
Dives and Lazarus, i. 196, 197, 200            Butler's reply, ii. 191
Divorce, Butler on, ii. 74                     and Butler's health, ii. 239, 395 foil-,
Dixon, Miss (the Pocket Cyclone), i. 221          403
Dobell, Bertram, i. 150                        his last illness and death, ii. 412-13
Dobell, Sydney, i. 295                      Dudley Gallery, Butler's sketches at the,
Doctor (Butler's horse), i. 76, 77, 80,           i. 287
       lV                                   Du Card, Dr., i. 13
Dogs, Mrs., n. 108                          Dulichium, ii. 171
Dogs, at Madeira, i. 5                      Dulwich, i. 227, ii. 355
" Dogs, The, of the monks ot St.            Dumas, Lucie. See" Madame"
      Bernard . . „" ii. 156, 255           Dumb ague, i. 337
Dolce, Carlo, i. 115                        Dumb cold, i. 337
Dolmetsch, Arnold, ii. 415                  Dumb devil, i. 195, ii. 285
Domodossola, ii. 100                        Dunchurch, i. 1
Don, Capt. Patrick, i. 8, 9                 Dunkett's Rat-Trap, i. 436
" Don Quixote " exhibited and sold, i.      Dunthorne and Walker, i. 424
                                            " Duodecimo, Come, I will write a," ii. 71
Donaldson, Miss, 1. 225                     Durio, Sig. Constantino, ii. 107

                                                 DYER                      EREWHON                                      491
 Dyer, Thiselton, at the Linncan Society,                                    Elmsley, Rev. Peter, ii. 435
       »• 433-4                                                              Ely Place, Rosminian Fathers in, i. 369,
 Dyer, Mrs. Thiselton, i. 396                                                        374
 " Dynamical Theory of Grief," i. 117                                        Elymi, ii. 139, 160
 Dynamite conspiracy, ii. 251                                                Encyclopaedia Britannica (1878), Huxley on
 Dzilcow, Galicia, ii. 296                                                           Buffon in, i. 371
                                                                                (1911) article on Butler in, i. xxvii
 E. and The Way of All Flesh, ii. 11-12                                     Enfield, i. 392
 "E. D." (pseudonym used, probably by                                       " England's Folly," ii. 374
       Butler, in the Examiner correspond                                   English literature, Silvio and, i. 432, 433
       ence, " A Clergyman's Doubts "), i.                                  Enna, ii. 185
       298                                                                  Enrico, D'. See D' Enrico
 Eagle, The, H. F. Jones's obituary of                                      Enys, J. D., i. 88
       Butler in, i. xi, xxv, ii. 258, 420                                      letter to H. F. Jones on Butler, i. 103-
   " On English Composition " in, i. xxi, ii.                                       104, 105, 153
       235-6                                                                    letter to Butler about Mesopotamia, ii.
   Butler's early contributions to, i. 55-                                          103-4
       57. 7'                                                               Erard, i. 234
   "Theii. 131
             Humour of Homer" printed in,                                   Erasmus Darwin. See Krause, Ernst
                                                                            Erewhon, N . Z., i . 153
   extracts from Butler's translations of                                   Erewhon Dinners—
      the ///Wand Odyssey printed in, ii. 206                                   1. ii. 417-19
   review of the Life of Dr. Butler in, ii.                                     2. i. 102, ii. 419-20
                                                                                3. ii. 420
      264 Clergyman" (pseudonym adopted
"Earnest                                                                       4. i. 362, ii. 363, 424.5
      by Butler in the Examiner corre                                           5. ii. 390, 428
      spondence, "A Clergyman's Doubts"),                                      6. ii. 429
      i. 29 5 foil.                                                            7. ii. 74-5, 429-30
Eccleshall,
Earthquakes,
Earnestness,
Easingwold,
Ecclesiastes,
Ecce
Ebn
Easter
East  Homo,
      India
       Peckham,
      Oaz,Monday,       182
                         i.9,75
                        19,
                       Butler
              i.Company,
                i.i.175-6,
                     i.ii.     aii.
                              109,
                              ii.    ii.
                                    8481
                                       471
                                 ii.human,
                                        and
                                          i.338
                                         ii.  4,  the
                                               182,ii.
                                                   8, 228 94,
                                                         260   430
                                                            Rosminian       Erewhonin, i.(1872),
                                                                                          xi      autobiographical material
                                                                                bibliography, i. xxii
                                                                               its connection with A First Year, i. 80,
                                                                                    151, ii. 70
                                                                               germ of, i. 133, 151, ii. 70
                                                                               nearly finished, i. 144
                                                                               Miss Savage asked to read the MS., i.
                                                                                    144
                                                                               finished and refused by Chapman Ic
Edward
Edinburgh
Edolo,Father       onand
          Butler
            VII.,
               Review,    King
                            a passage
                                  Jones
                                      i.of17England,
                                                at,
                                                 in, ii.i. 374and Leo
                                                            107                    Hall, i. 148
                                                                               accepted by TrObner, and published, i.
                                                                                    148-50
                                                                               Miss Savage's copy sold (1914), i. 150
      pold Rothschild, i. 349                                                  the opinions of friends, i. 150-51
   and Lord Grimthorpe, ii. 305                                                geography of, i. 15 1-2
Egremont,
Eggs,
Edwards,
   and Butler
         Ernvhon                K.,
              R.Countess
                     and,
                     W.Revisited, ii. 166,
                                         i.of,
                                             xii,236-7,
                                                  ii.
                                                   portrait
                                                    ii.355 302260,      by
                                                                  of, 264      its plan and reception, i. 152, 176, ii.
                                                                                   49. 375
                                                                               its pronunciation, i. 153
                                                                               causes Butler to be lionised, i. 1 5 3 foil.
Elder,
Eliot,
ElijahReynolds,
         J.
          (Mendelssohn),
          George,
             A., i. 152,         403,
                            i.Miss     231, Savage
                                            ii.
                                             Butler
                                                 48
                                                 235 on,             173,
                                                           on, i.i. 295        translations, i. 153
                                                                               its anonymity, i. 1 54-5
                                                                               authorship disclosed, i. 155-6
                                                                               its reception at Langar, i. 155-6, 159
      309-10                                                                   letters to Darwin on, i. 156-8
   "Who is safe?" i. 269                                                       reviewed by Miss Savage, i. 158, ii. 439
Elizabeth,
   Butler onQueen,  her death,      her double
                                             i. 360 at Harrow                     foil.
                                                                               second edition published, i. 158
      Weald, ii. 166, 204, 226, 237, 264,                                          ii. 311
                                                                               impressions,    sales, and profits, i. 158-9,
Ellen
Elizabethans,
Elizabethanisms,
      283
        {The Way        ii. of 278    298Fleih), ii. 1 1 foil
                                ii. All                                        H. F. Jones's copy, i. 168
                                                                               and Colymhia, i. 186
                                                                                      to 273
                                                                               said188,   have killed Butler's mother, L
Ellicott, Bp., ii. 470

 492                     EREIVHON — EUSTATHIUS
 Erewhon (conrJ.)—                                                Erewhon Revisited [contd.)—
     "that glorious book," i. 193                                     and Erewhon for 6d., ii. 320-21, 354
    still talked about (1875), i. 218                                and Mrs. Fuller Maitland, ii. 337-8
     proofs at Cambridge (1872), i. 231                              refused by Longmans, ii. 339
     its connection with Life and Habit, i.                           Bernard Shaw and, ii. 339/0//.
                                                                     accepted by Grant Richards, ii. 341
    music*33 in, i. 241                                              finished at Harwich, ii. 341
           255 lady and the lobster cut out of,
    thei. old                                                        published, ii. 353
                                                                     incidents in, ii. 354-5
    Canon Butler and, i. 273-4                                       reception, ii. 356, 358, 381-2
     George Eliot and, i. 310                                        "O," and, ii. 356-7
    liked in Italy, i. 329                                           topography of, ii. 362
    selling well (1880), i. JJJ                                      sales of, ii. 369
    "intellectual gymnastics," i. 333                                the dinner-party in, ii. 370 and note
    echo of it in Alps and Sanctuaries, i.                           " Rights of Animals " chapter, ii. 374
         J°3-4                                                       at the Morses', ii. 374
    Butler on it, i. 390                                              The Press and, ii. 377, 381-2
    he proposes to improve it, i. 405                                the Epitaph in, ii. 380
    bad temper and bad digestion and, i.                             Miss Butler and, ii. 407
        429                                                          in the Inventories, ii. 473
    an irony of fate and, i. 444                                  Errera, Dr., ii. 157
    Thomas Butler and, ii. 22                                     Eryx (city), ii. 134, 139
    Rockstro and, ii. 93, 177                                        Butler's accident at, ii. 140
    Mrs. Grosvenor and, ii. 117                                      wallsblind
                                                                    the          singer
                                                                            of, ii. 157 at, ii. 1 59, 34S
    Jowett and, ii. 152
    a millstone round Butler's neck, ii.                             Butler ill there, ii. 1 59
         »53                                                        and Segesta, ii. 162-3
   "Moliere
    Darwin
    Forbes-Robertson
    and
    Dean
    Mr.
   W.
    "6d.,
    Miss
    Col.
       Malcontents
          Bateson
          Erewhon
           W.
           Burtt
           Lean
            Aldrich
             Pigou
             very
               and,
                Pember
                  and,
                  and,
                   readable,"
                    and,
                    and,
                     ii.
                      Revisited,
                      and,
                       " ii.
                         439-40
                          382
                          chapter,
                            ii.
                            Reeves
                             ii.
                              and,
                               169-71
                               216
                                ii.424
                                   330-31
                                     216
                                      ii.ii.ii.320-21,
                                               ii.
                                                420
                                                  354
                                               and,   ii. 170
                                                    424-5 354       gigantic stones, ii. 261
                                                                    and Trapani, ii. 261
                                                                 Eryx, Mount, ii. 121, 134
                                                                 Essays and Reviews, i. 295
                                                                 Essays on Life, Art, and Science (1904),
                                                                           bibliography, i. xxvi
                                                                    " Ramblings in Cheapside " quoted as to
                                                                           Dante, i. 382
                                                                              as to parrots, i. 42 1
                                                                    lecture on "Thought and Language"
                                                                           published in, ii. 93
                                                                    "The Deadlock in Darwinism" repro
Erewhon. New edition (1901), autobio                                       duced in, ii. 97, 131
        graphical material
   bibliography,     i. xxv, xxvi   in, i. xi                       contents, ii. 101
                                                                    " How to make the Best of Life " pub
   11 Disgrazia "estate
  Whitehall                    affair i.introduced,
                     introduced,                   26         i.           lished in, ii. 205
                                                                    See also Humour, The, of Homer, and
        168                                                                other Essays ; and the titles of the
  to be published by Grant Richards, ii.                                   individual essays
                                                                 " Esther, Haman, and Ahasuerus " (Rem
  published, ii. 353                                                    brandt), ii. 297
  sales, ii. 369                                                 " Ethics " (pseudonym adopted by Butler
    The Spectator and, ii. 375-6                                        in the Examiner correspondence, " A
   The Press and, ii. 377, 381-2                                        Clergyman's Doubts"), i. 297-8
   in the Inventories, ii. 473                                   Etna, i. 42
Eretvhon Revisited (1901), bibliography, i.                         eruption of, ii. 14;
        xxv, xxvi                                                   earthquake, ii. 181-2. 183
  and Butler's early life, i. 20                                    its red champagne, ii. 182-3
    "Doctor" introduced, i. 76                                      Butler and, ii. 224, 242-3
   and the Resurrection pamphlet, i. 120                         Eton, ii. 252
  not contemplated (1877), i. 247                                Eton grammars, i. 39-40
  the least rewritten of his books, ii. 76,                      Eugenia, Empress, i. 262
        353                                                      Eumaeus, ii. 147, 149, 157, 208
  to be written (1896), ii. 251, (1900)                          Eurybates, ii. 188
       33'                                                       Eustathius, ii. 388

                EVANS (CANON) — FAIR HAVEN                                                        493
Evans, letter
           Rev.to,Canon
                   about (of
                          Dr.Durham),
                               Butler, ii. Butler's
                                            73       Ex Voto [contd.)—
                                                            F. C. Fisher
                                                        Butler's             to the
                                                                     letters on  R. H.     H. Custin,and
                                                                                        mistakes      ii.
Evans, Mr. A. J., ii. 233
Evans, Mr. (Staple Inn), ii. 302                            249-50
Evening Standard, i. 262                                quoted as to rhyming entries in visitors'
Evidence, The, for the Resurrection (1865),                 books, ii. 254
       bibliography, i. xxii, ii. 310                   new edition proposed, ii. 369, 377, 384,
   printed and issued privately, i. 99,                     385, 396
        "7                                                  Stephen's
                                                     Examiner,             Butler's
                                                                    The, essays          209 of Leslie
                                                                                 in, i.review
   summary of, i. 1 1 7 foil.
   the foundation of Tie Fair Haven, i.                 and "The Righteous Man," i. 238
        160-61, 176, 179                                its review of Life and Habit, i. 267
Evolution Old and New (1879), biblio                    " A Clergyman s Doubts " published in,
       graphy, i. xxii                                      i. i<)C,foll.
   germ of, i. 272                                      God the Known and God the Unknown
   progress of, i. 291                                      published in, i. loo foil.
   plan of, i. 299                                      announces Evolution Old and New, i.
   published, i. 299, 319                                   319
   reviews, i. 304, 318, 370-71                         Grant Allen in, on Evolution Old and
   its miraculous powers, i. 305                            New, i. 371
   and Buffon, i. 310                                Excuses, Miss Savage on, i. 354, 378
   and Tie Timet Literary Supplement (1909),         Exeter Hall, i. 43
       i. 318-19                                     Eyes, Alethea's, i. 208
   Butler's quarrel with Darwin in respect              Mr. Gladstone's, ii. 358
       of, i. 319^0//., ii. 60, 427, 447 foil.
   leads to Unconscious Memory, i. 331, 339,         Fa rtctum, ii. 229
                                                     Faesch family, ii. 194, 211, 225, 237, 239,
   .34*
   its   publication badly managed, i. 333                  250, 302, 331, 342
   Grant Allen and, ii. 20, 28                       Faesch, Hans Rudolf, beginning of Butler's
   and religious controversy, ii. 41                        friendship with, ii. 164
   and Luck or Cunning T, ii. 42                        particulars of his family, ii. 165
   S. H. Burbury and, ii. 96                            Sunday walks with Butler, ii. 165-6
   analysis of the sales of, ii. 311                    leaves London for Singapore, ii. 200
Evolution Old and Nevj. Second edition                  "In Memoriam H. R. F.," ii. 201-2
       (1882), bibliography, i. xxiii                   Butler's letters to, ii. 202-6, 211,
   and the Church, i. 183                                   213-14, 224, 226, 227-8, 232, 237,
   and G:d the Known and God the Un                         247, 248-9, 251, 256, 259-60, 274
       known, i. 303                                    and Butler's horse in the Troad, ii. 217
   Appendix and Preface to, i. 370-72, ii.                foil.
       463                                              Butler and his camera, ii. 240
   Darwin
   Miss       and, on
           Savage       78, 427i. 372-3
                    ii. same,                          letter to Butler, ii. 248
                                                       in Switzerland (1898), ii. 292, 294
       i. xxvii
Evolution    Old and New. New edition ( 1 9 1 1 ),     leaves London for Vien-tiane, ii. 297
                                                       in Switzerland (1900), ii. 331-2
Ewing, Mrs, Jackanapes, i. 380-81                      in London for the last time, ii. 335
Ex Voto (1888), bibliography, i. xxiii, xxvi           death, ii. 411
  and Dr. Kennedy, i. 32                            Faesch, Remi, Butler meets, ii. 250
  and Alps and Sanctuaries, i. 362, ii.                Butler on, in a letter to Hans Faesch,
                                                           ii. 251
  begun, ii. 54 foil.                                  Butler's letter to, on his mode of life,
  photographs for, ii. 61                                  ii. 256-7
  published, ii. 62                                    in London, ii. 352
  portrait of Butler in, ii. 63                        and the death of Hans, ii. 411
  translated into Italian, ii. 67, 116, 137-        Faido, Butler at, i. 239, 251
      138, 181                                         Jones and, i. 281
  additional matter for, ii. 69-70                     Butler's headquarters, i. 284
  •ales of, ii. 85, 31 1, 3S5                          Butler at, i. 306
  Avvocato Negri and, ii. 109-10, 137                  making notes and sketches for Alps and
  Pietro de Stefanis and, ii. 1 10                        Sanctuaries at, i. 335
  Dr. Mandell Creighton and, ii. 175-6,                and "that damned Republic," i. 395
      178                                           Fair Haven, The (1873), autobiographical
  Miss Aldrich and, ii. 216                               material in, i. xi

 494             FAIR HAVEN — FITZGERALD (E.)
 Fair Htn.cn, The (contd.)—                        Ferrari, Gaudenzio (conid.)—
     bibliography, i. xxii                            vandalism in his Crucifixion chapel, ii.
     and Butler's early life, i. 20                       >«3 .
     Butler's mother introduced, i. 24, 177       Ferro, on Trapani, ii. 134
     germ of, i. 160-61                           Fesch, Francois, ii. 165
     begun, i. 162                                Fesch, Card. Joseph, ii. 165
     read to the sons of Charles Darwin, i. 1 65  Festing, Michael Christian, i. 229
     progress of the book, i. 172-6               Festing, Michael John, i. 229
     published, i. 176                            Fetter Lane, and Clifford's Inn, i. 145-6
    summary of, i. 176 foil.                          Butler robbed in, ii. 167
     Butler's
         i. 177 father introduced by contraries,     Darwin and, ii. 258
                                                            11 (housekeeper at Blakesware),
                                                  Field,i. Mrs.
    himself introduced, i. 177-8
    Rev. E. A. Abbott on, i. 182                  Fiesole, Butler on, i. 328
    Charles Darwin on, i. 186-7                      walla at, ii. 147
    Miss Savage and, i. 190 foil.                 Fi field, A. C, and Butler's books, i. xxi
    Rev. Archer Gurney and, i. 199                   and R. B. Booth, i. 86
        i. 200,
    second       201, 203
              edition,  with the author's name,      and dress clothes, i. 362
                                                  Fifths, Rockstro and, ii. 228
    reviews
        201, 368of first edition quoted, i. 200-  Figaro, and Queen Victoria, i. 429
                                                  Filleted sole, i. 425
    Erewhon preferred to, i. 209                  Finchley Cemetery, Miss Savage buried in,
    a copy for Moody and Sankey, i. 221                  i. 440-41, 446 foil.
    Life and Habit and, i. 265                    "Find Mr. Butler," ii. 237
    Butler's opinion of, i. 390                   Fingal's Cave, i. 241
    Robert Bridges and, ii. 309                   Firmin, St., ii. 251
    analysis of sales of, ii. 311                 First Tear, A, in Canterbury Settlement
 Fair Haven, The. New edition (1913), i.                 (1863), bibliography, i. vi, xxi
        xxviii                                       autobiographical material in, i. xi
 Fairmead, ii. 380                                   published by Canon Butler, i. 71, ii. 434
 Faith, i. 176, 180, ii. 16                          Butler's opinion of, i. 72-3, 146, ii. 70
 Falsetto, ii. 159                                   quoted, i. 73 foil.
 Falstaff, and Gadshill, ii. 166                     and Erewhon,}. 133, 151
 Falstaff (Verdi), i. 288                            read     by the
                                                         Savage,  i. 146Heatherleys and Miss
"Family Prayers," reminiscent of early
        days at Langar, i. 24, ii. 4 14- 15             i. 273
                                                     only    book by Butler read by his father,
    painted, i. 115
   reproduced, ii. ix                                Alfred Marks and, ii. 70
   and Butler's music, ii. 104-5                     Sir W. L. Buller and, ii. 7 1
Farewell (Haydn), i. 255                             no record of copies sold, ii. 310
Farinelli, ii. 374                                First Tear, A, in Canterbury Settlement,
Farmer, John (Harrow), i. 232                           with other Early Essays. Ed. by R. A.
Farren, Nellie, i. 232                                  Streatfeild (1914), bibliography, i. xxi,
f'auit (Lyceum), ii. 115, 209                           xxii, ixviii
Faustinien, ii. 251                                  Butler's early writings republished in,
Favognana, ii. 139, 157, 187                            '¦ 47. 55-6. «oi-l
Fawcett, Prof., Butler and, i. 4, 38             Firth, J. B., Highways and Byways in
" Fawnicate," ii. 3+8                                   Nottinghamshire, i. xxix
Fazzello, on Trapani, ii. 13 J                   Fish, rotten, i. Ill
Feace, ii. 133                                   Fisher, Rev. F..C, Butler's letter to, on
Fechner, i. 301                                         the mistakes in Ex Voto, ii. 250
Felibicn, and the Bellini heads question,        Fisher, Dr., i. 104-5
       ii. 10 foil.                              Fisher, Mrs. See Buckley, Miss Arabella
Finis, Castle of, i. 375                               (afterwards Mrs. Fisher)
Ferentino, ii. 153, 154                          Fisheries exhibition, Miss Savage and the,
Ferguson, James, i. xix, 141                           i. 395-6
Ferns, i. 40                                     FitzGerald, Edward, his version of the
Ferrari, Gaudenzio, and Kennedy, i. 32                 Rubdiyit Henry,
                                                       Fernand      of Omar      Khayyam
                                                                           ii. 322,          and
                                                                                    327, 333-4,
   festa at Varallo in honour of the fourth
       centenary of his birth, ii. 23                  335
   and Ex Voto, ii. 54                              Butler and his Letters, ii. 365, 366, 367,
   his statue of Stefano Scotto, ii. 63, 69            3°9. 370

              FITZGERALD (J- E.) — GARNETT                                                             495
FitrGerald, J. E., i. 99, 102                 Fuller, Rev. John, i. 230
   and Pauli, i. 107                          Fuller Maitland, J. A., i. xii
Fix and Box, ii. 23                              and Rockstro, ii. 90, 238
Flattery, i. 175, 176                            and The Times, ii. 90, 326
Flaubert, i. 202                                 and a performance of Narcissus, ii. 238
Fleet Street, i. 364                              Butler and a magazine article by, ii. 326
Florida, ii. 301                                  with Butler in Sicily, ii. 376, 388, 389,
Fluelen, ii. 302
Flushing, ii. 294                                and Butler's music, ii. 420
Flying-fiih, i. 73-4                          Fuller Maitland, Mrs. J. A., i. xii
Fobello, i. 146                                  Butler at her house, ii. 119, 150, 370
   Butler's picture of a Fobello Christening,    and Eretvhon Revisited, ii. 337-8
      i. 147                                    with Butler in Sicily, ii. 376, 388, 389,
   and the Pagets, i. 307                            391/.//.
   and Uccetta, ii. 337-8                     Funchal, i. 5
Fontenoy, ii. 432                             Fumes, Procession of the Passion at, ii. 98
"Food of Health," i. 373                      Furni vail, F. J., and Butler's Sonnets book,
Fools, ii. 226                                       ii. 310 foil.
Forbes- Robertson, Sir J., i. 184, ii. 420    Fusio, i. 239, ii. 55
Ford, Miss, and the Lost Chord, ii. 174
Forest Creek (Mesopotamia), ii. 104           G         , i. 83-4
Forll, ii. 303                                G (British Museum), Miss Savage and,
Formiche, ii. 14$                                    i. 250
Forster, Mr., and £., ii. 12                  Gadshill, ii. 165-6, 204, 226, 237
Fortescue, G. K.., gives Butler a testimonial Gaetano. See Meo, Gaetano
      when a candidate for the Slade Pro      Caiety Theatre burlesques, i. 232
      fessorship, ii. 33                      Gainsborough, ii. 250
   and Richard Garnett, ii. 123-4             Galembert, de, ii. 248
Fortnightly Review, and the Sonnets book,     Galeoto, Prof. Joseph, his letter to Butler,
      ii. 316                                        ii. 293
Fortunate Youth, ii. 252                          Butler's reply, ii. 293
Fortune and her Wheel, i. 375                 Gallup, Mrs., ii. 360, 364, 370, 373
Foskett, Mrs., ii. 283                        Gammell, James, i. 191
Francatelli, C. £., i. 246                    Ganges, i. 7
France, F. (St. John's Coll., Camb.), i. 45   Garden of Eden and Heaven compared, i. 60
Francis, St., ii. 291                         Garibaldi, and Ingroja, ii. 161-2, 277
Francis I., King of France, in * Ramblings        flag, ii. 299-300
      in Cheapside," ii. 101                     and Donna Maria, ii. 328
"Frankly," ii. 323                            Garlic, "La Soma," ii. 113
Freck the Shepherd, i. 40, 177, 231, ii. 92      choking with emotion and yesterday's,
Frederick the Great, i. 198                          ii. 270
Free-thinking and Plain-speaking, i. 209      Garnett, Richard, i. vi
Freeman, E. A., and Butler at Castclvc-          and Miss Savage, i. 255
      trano, ii. 269                              Unconscious Memory dedicated to him, i.
Freer, General, i. 8                                 338
Freer, Mrs. General (Frances Mary Butler),              Miss Buckley,
                                                 and "The                          344, 360-61 Cock
                                                                 Ballad of1. Wednesbury
      i. 4, 8, ii. 74
French poetry and prose, the English and,        and
                                                 hising,"
                                                 best   Alps
                                                        Shelley's
                                                         informed
                                                             i. and
                                                       flirtation
                                                        Alexander    death,
                                                                 348,with
                                                                      man
                                                                       Selkirk,
                                                                        ii. 255
                                                                             astrology,
                                                                     Sanctuaries,    i. 3i.5 1ever
                                                                                    387
                                                                                i.Butler       i. 388-9
                                                                                              364    met, i.
      ii. 306
French, Mrs., and the National Gallery,
      ii. 258
Fresco, ii. 333
Freshfield, Douglas, and Alpi and Sanctu
      aries, i. 366                                   389
Friendship and Love, in the Sonnets, ii.         and The      Way candidature
                                                         Butler's    of All Flesh, for           the Slade
                                                                                            i. 389,      396
      3.7-18
Fritillarics, ii. 404                            aButler
                                                 and Professorship
                                                    goodan  on
                                                            don-ometer,
                                                            oratorio
                                                        Frost's      Tviilight
                                                                hisLives,
                                                                       onat aii.
                                                                               sacred
                                                                               ii.66ofthe
                                                                                    123 subject,
                                                                             Cambridge,      Gods,       ii.123
                                                                                                  ii. ii.33  38
Frosinone, ii. 242
Frost, Dr.John, Lives ofEminent Christians,
      ii. 65-6
Fruit, i. 215
Fuller, James Franklin, Omniana, i. xxix             and note, 309

496                      GARNETT — GOETHE
Garnett, Richard (contd.)—                    Gladstone, William Ewart {contd.)—
   his hatred of anything downright and          his death desired, i. 336
      outspoken, ii. 123-4                       Times narrative of his excursion, i. 338
   and The Humour of Homer, ii. 123, 131         Miss Savage on him, i. 348
   and the Life of Dr. Butler, ii. 255           and Dante, i. 382
   and The Authoress of the Odyssey, ii. 278     and Sir Andrew Clark, i. 429
     foil.                                       and the Gavottes, ii. 7
   Butler on the committee for his portrait,     and the Bellini heads, ii. 31
      ii. 301                                    " a good man in the very worst sense
   Butler'a letter to, on Shakespeare's              of the words," ii. 34
      Sonnets, ii. 307-8                         Aunt Sarah and, it. 36
   his Select Letters of Shelley, ii. 322        and "The Humour of Homer," ii.
Gasquet, F. A., The Last Abbot of Glaston            •3*
      bury and other Essays, i. 2 note           and Butler's Odyssey article, ii. 166
Gaston, Mrs., at Miss Savage's funeral, i.       his postcards to Butler, ii. 195, 225
       440                                       and to Mario Puglisi, ii. 225
Gavottes, Minuets, Fugues, and other short       and the Life of Dr. Butler, ii. 2 59
      piecesfor the piano. By Samuel Butler      his eyes and nose, ii. 358
      and Henry Festing Jones (1885), biblio     and Butler's tobacconist, ii. 365
      graphy, i. xxiii                           Disraeli on, ii. 439
   inception, i. 385                          Gladstone, Mrs. W. E., her maid, i. 338
   Butler's minuet in, played at Heather-     Glasgow, British Association meeting at,
       ley's, i. 385                                 ii. 426
   announced, i. 424,42;                      Glastonbury, i. 2 and note
   about to appear, i. 439, 448               Glen Rosa, ii. 19
   Jones's " miserable fugue M in C in        Gliss, church of Sta Anna at, ii. 250
      scribed to Miss Savage, i. 448          Glory di John, ii. 151
   sent to Antonio Cagnoni, ii. 24, 25        Gloucester Terrace, Paddington, i. 229
Gazelle, Moore's young lady's, i. 291-2,      Glyder Fawr, i. 279
       33'. 439 (Tylor), ii. 66, 83, 349      TvGxrit and iyiirn, t. 50, 282, 285, ii.
Gaxetta di Novara, i. xxix                           228
Gclstone, Mrs., and Miss Savage, i. 186,      Goat's milk, ii. 1 59
       "94. '97. *°6                          God, the omnipresence of mind and design
   her friend's prize book, i. 356                   in the universe, i. 372, 407, ii. 41
Genius, and respectability, i. 262               impertinence to, ii. 5
   and Mrs. Webster, i. 417                      love for, ii. 16
Genoa, and Dr. Butler, i. 10, 387, ii. 303,      "the ineffable contradiction in terms,"
                                                    «. 44. 53. 379
Geoffroys, the, and Luch or Cunning ?, ii. 43    his need for an Alfred, ii. 109
Geograha, i. 241                                 and the spire of St. Mary's Church,
Geological Survey of India, E. J. Jones on          Shrewsbury, ii. 181
      the, i. 430                                and Grignolino, ii. 289
Ghemme, ii. 288                                  and George Crabbe, ii. 367
Gianni, Giovanni, i. 117                         may forgive Y, ii. 369
Gibbon, E., i. 74, 97                            choosing books for, ii. 374
Gibson, Rev. E., i. 31                           his taste in literature, ii. 393
Gignous, i. 288                                  a respecter of money, ii. 470
Gilardini, Prof., ii. 113                     " God bless you, merry gentleman," i. 402
Gillow's, i. 223                              God the Known and God the Unhnrum
Giorcelli, Cavaliere, ii. 1 14                      (1879 and 1909), bibliography, i. xxii,
   and Butler at Casale (1901), ii. 343,            xxvi
       35*. 353. (19°*) 388. 389                 original appearance in The Examiner, i.
Giorgione, i. 394                                    300
Giornale di Sicilia, and Butler's visit to       republication, i. 300
      Collcsano, ii. 272                         summary of, i. 300 foil.
Giotto, i. 328, ii. 303                          "an Eirenicon," i. 372
Giovannino, i. 283                               quoted in connection with Variation,
Girgenti, ii. 268, 329                              ii. 97-8
Gissing, George, i. xxix                      Godio, Cav. Aleasandro, and Tabachetti,
Gladstone, William Ewart, and Ecce Homo,            ii. 66
      i. 182                                  Goethe, IVtlhelm Mliseer, i. 216-17
   bis guardian police, i. 287                   Miss Savage and, i. 217, ii. 442

                               GOETHE — GROSVENOR                                                 497
  Goethe (contd.)—                                        Gotch, T. C. (contd.)—
      one of the Seven Humbugt of Christen                  and the Royal Academy, i. 332
         dom, i. 364                                        Butler on, i. 332
  Gogin, Charles, i. xii                                    and a picture by Lionello Spada, i.
     •t Heatherley's with Butler, i. 139-40                    394
     hit portrait of Butler, i. 139, ii. 247,            Gothic and Renaissance architecture, L
        407-8,411,412,418                                      290
     and Ernohm, i. 151                                  Gothic woman, ii. 47 1
     and The Way, i. 200                                 Gottardo, San, and Civiasco, ii. 54-5
     Butler's " Advertisement " picture given            Gow, A. C, gives Butler a testimonial
        to, i. 248                                             when a candidate for the Slade
     Sunday walks with Butler, i. 289                          Professorship, ii. 33
     on Reginald Worsley, i. 290                         Gower Street, and Selinunte, ii. 208
     and the Royal Academy, i. 332                       Gozo, ii. 327
     and Alps and Sanctuaries, i. 360, 363               Grace and the Law, i. 239-40, 307
 * shows Butler how to etch, i. 426                      Granborough, i. 2
     Narcissus rehearsed in his studio, ii. 37           Granville, Mr. (B.M.), i. 255
     and Butler's supposed Rembrandt, ii. 48,            Granville, Old, and The Fair Haven, 1
        402                                                    186
     and the " buggy " bell, ii. 55                      Grape-fruit, ii. 301
     story of the man-milliner, ii. 86                   Grasso and magro, ii. 337
     and the Note-Boohs, ii. 120                        Gravesend, James Butler embarks at, i. 5
     Miss Aldrich and, ii. 214 Jill.                       Butler at, ii. 165, 204
     his portrait of H. F. Jones, ii. 247, 411          Gray, Mr. W. H., ii. 397-8, 424
^ and the Barristers at Ypres, ii. 268-70               Great Bear, ii. 234
     and Rembrandt's " Staalmeestera," ii.              " Great God, Who yet but darkly known "
        *97                                                   (Handel), ii. 14-15
    at
    and Butler's
    Butler's
          Hans
          Alfred,
          Butler's
          Ernohon  funeral,
               legacies
                  Faesch,
                       Revisited,
                    ii.portrait
                         346to,ii.ii.
                                  ii.of
                                      297
                                       4C0
                                       402-3
                                        ii. 347 (1880),
                                         himself        Great Marlborough Street, i. 370
                                                        Great Portland Street, ii. 417
                                                        Greatbach, Mrs., i. 380
                                                        GreatRex, Dr. A., and Dr. Butler, ii.
                                                              81-2
                                                           attending Butler, ii. 208
       ii. 424                                          GreatRex, Mrs., and Chateau Margaux, ii.
    and an early portrait of Butler by him                    82
       self, ii. 434                                    Grecian Theatre, i. 270, ii. 373
 Gogin, Mrs. Charles, i. 140                            Green, Joseph, i. 56
    Butler's legacy to, ii. 403                         Green Park, ii. 383
 Goliler's Green, ii. 413                               Greenwich, i. 253
 Gold6nches, ii. 270                                    Greg, Thomas, ii. 354
 Goldschmidt, Otto, and Mendelssohn, ii.                Greg, W. R., i. 187
       91                ;.                             Gregory XVI. {Pope), i. 26
    and Roclcstro, ii. 126                              Gregory, Mr., Rector ofJ.angar, ii. 416
 Goldsmith, Oliver, i. 276                              Gressoney la Trinite, ii. 57
 Golgotha, a topsy-turvy, ii. 58                              aboutRev.
                                                        Gretton,           F. £., ii.
                                                                     Dr. Butler,      72
                                                                                   Butler's letter to,
 Good Friday, a human, ii. 94, 430
 Good living and its fruits, ii. 124                    Griffith, Farran, & Co., ii. 125
 " Good news ! good news for all the                    Griggs, F. L., i. xxix
       world ! " ii. 6-7                                Grignolino, ii. 112, 289
 Goodge Street, Miss Savage and, i. 309,                Grimthorpe, Lord, and the Life of Dr.
       312                                                    Butler, ii. 255, 264-5
 Goodwin, Harvey, Bp. of Carlisle, and                     and the Odyssey, ii. 304, 308, 331
       Butler at Cambridge, i. 49                          and Butler at St. Albans, ii. 304-5
   and Unconscious Memory, i. 344-5                     Grindelwald, i. 164
    his articles, i. 345                                Grossir, name adopted by some of the
    and Miss Savage, i. 345, ii. 34                           Tabachetti family, ii. 67
 Gopsall, ii. 77                                        Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs. R. C. (formerly
 Gosse, Edmund, at the fifth Erewhon                          Mrs. Alfred Bovill), i. xii
       dinner, ii. 428                                     beginnings of her friendship with
 Gotch, T. C, at Heatherley's with Butler,                    Butler, ii. 93
       i. 134                                              and Gluck's Ui fro, ii. 94
   ¦nd Handel, i. 329                                      her father, ii. 94
        VOL. II                                                                          2 K

498                       GROSVENOR — HARBLOT
Grosvenor, Hon. Mn. R. C. (contd.)—              Hairbrushes, Butler's, ii. 47
   "a human Enter Monday," ii. 94-5,                and Alfred, ii. 59
                                                 HakewiU, Henry, i. 142
   ¦t the seventh Erewhon dinner, ii. 95,        Hall, Edward Algernon, Butler and Jones
       430                                             meet in the rooms of, i. 231
   Butler*! letters to, ii. 108, 124, 130,       Hall, Mr. Isaac, ii. 416
       136, 150, 151, 158, 166, 167-9,          Hall, Vincent, i. 40, 231
       182-3, "95-9. *3*-3. 235                  Hall of Eleusis, i. 193
    her Reminiscences of Butler, ii. 117         Halle, C. E., i. 403
      fill., 430                                 Hals, Franz, ii. 295
   and " Is it cut ? " ii. 177                   Halsbury, Lord, ii. 354
   and Alfred, ii. 182-3, I9S~"> 430*3'         Ham, as a token of affection, i. 355
   and "In Memoriam H. R. F.," ii.                 cutting it thin, ii. 288-9
       205                                       Haman, ii. 297
Groavenor Gallery Exhibition, Butler's           Hamilton, Archdeacon, at the Shrewsbury
       Reynolds in the, i. 403                         Dinner, ii. 39
Grosvenor House, ii. 296                         Hamlet, i. 291
Grotta del Toro, ii. 134, 143, 157, 244            and the
                                                Hamlet,           the Army
                                                           andSonnets,           examiners, i. 247
                                                                            ii. 312
Grotta di Polifemo, ii. 244
Grotta Emiliana, ii. 135                              ii. 360, Miss
                                                Hampatead,         397, 403Lilian I. Jones'a flat at,
Ground-bass, Butler's chorus on a, K. 259,
      283                                       Hampton Court, i. 128
Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians,         and
                                                   Butler's
                                                Handel,  Aunt
                                                           andlove Bather,
                                                                  Miss forSusannah
                                                                              i. 36
                                                                            the   music   of, i. 37,
                                                                                       Apthorp,       ii.
                                                                                                   i. 28
      on Antonio Cagnoni, ii. 25
   on Beethoven, ii. 405 and note
Grove's for turbot, i. 1 8                            356, 381
Grundy, Mrs, i. 134                                and
                                                   similarities
                                                    Butler's
                                                   his   Ernestnote
                                                        oratorios,  Pontifex,
                                                                     between
                                                                      i.on,143,
                                                                            i. 50-51
                                                                                  different
                                                                                  i. 51
                                                                                 146-7        passages
   her carriage, i. 1 34
Guardian, The, and Butler's books, ii. 356
Guglielmoni (guide}, i. 239
Guise, ii. 433                                     Butler
                                                   and     i.on
                                                      in,Ernvkon,
                                                               148believing
                                                                        i. 151,in231,   241
                                                                                    his music,  i. 240,
Guizot, pronunciation of, i. 197
Gulliver's Travels, ii. 240
Gurgoyle, President (Ereviken Revisited),             447. »'• *'*
      ii. 356                                      Butler's dreams about, i. 241, 270
Gurney, Rev. Archer, i. 199                        his music and Rossura Porch, i. 285
Gurney, Edmund, i. 231, 232                        and Narcissus, i. 295, 413 fill., ii. 231
   and Charles Crawley, ii. 93                     and Alps and Sanctuaries, 1. 362-3
Gurney, Henry, i. 231                              Jones's music to be in his manner, i. 384
   and Charles Crawley, ii. 93                     Butler's desire to put him and Bellini in
Gusbashi, Ismail, and Butler, ii. 22 1 fill.          some other category from Darwin,
Guthrie, Mr. T. Anstey, ii. 383                       etc, i. 408
Guy Manitering, ii. 347, 348                       Butler's sonnet on, i. 413
                                                   and Alethea's tombstone, i. 447
Haarlem,
Haast,   Sir
          Heinrich
             ii.
              Julius
                  295 von,           16 88, 105
                         von, i.i. 187,            and Butler's tombstone, i. 447, ii. 400
                                                   and Rockstro, ii. 91-2, 177
                                                   in " Ramblings in Cheapside," ii. 101
   and N.Z. plants, i. 116                         his unconscious life, ii. 205
   Butler's letters to, i. 1 16-17, 126-8          Arbuthnot on, ii. 221
   said to be like Andrea Ordini, i. 128           and the autumn leaves, ii. 236
   Butler sends him The Fair Haven, i.             and Domenico Scarlatti, ii. 300
      209                                          his libretti, ii. 332
   Butler's later meetings with, ii. 169           and Ulysses, ii. 356
   and Dr. Sinclair's funeral, ii. 361-2           See also under his various works
   and Butler's
Habakkuk,        i. 20 books for N.Z., ii. 386  Handel Street, ii. 130
                                                Handwriting, i. 199
Haeckel, and Erasmus Darwin and BufFon,         Happiness,
                                                Hanky           ii. 16-17
                                                          (Ernvkon        Revisited), ii. 354, 355-4
Hague,
Hagiar
Hahnemann,
" Hail,
      i. 371
          holy
          Kim,
          The, Light,"
                    ii.
                    i. 130
                   ii.  327 ii. 363-4
                        295
                                                   in later united,
                                                " Happy,                  God-fearing family," L
                                                              life, ii. 266
                                                      398-9
                                                Harblot, the pencil of, ii. 23

                           HARFORD — HICKMAN
Harford, Mr. Francis, ii. 413                      Heatherley, Thomas (contd.)—                499
Harnage, ii. 51, 301, 389                             and Butler's Reynolds, i. 403
Harper, Archdeacon, i. ioz                           gives Butler a testimonial, ii. 33
Harper, Dr. Gerald, ii. 363                           F. H. Potter at his School, ii. 48
Harper, River, i. 79                                  on improving, ii. 381
" Harriet," i. 293                                    H. M. Paget's reminiscences of his
Harris, John F., i. xii                                  School, ii. 430
   articles on Butler, i. xzviii                        to, on Dr.
                                                  Heatherley,     Mrs.   Thomas,
                                                                       Allbutt,        ii. 48-9 letter
                                                                                i. 8,Butler's
   Samuel Butler, author of Erewhon, i.
      xxix                                           the risk
                                                  Heaven,        be ii.
                                                             to of, very298neat, i. 178
   and Butler's rooms at St. John's College,
        the Erewhon
   andCambridge,     i. 57dinners, ii. 429        Heavenly Twint, The, ii. 215
                                                  Hector, ii. 218
Harrison, Frederic, and Pericles, ii. 371-2       Heely and Sawyer (friends of James
Harrison, Miss Jane, and " The Humour                   Butler), i. 7
          Homer,'
   andof Butler       ii. 123, ii.
                 at Athens,      132212, 214      Heitland, Mr. W. E., Butler's letters to,
                                                        published in The Eagle, i. xxviii
Harrison, Miss, ii. 198-9                            and the Life of Dr. Butler, ii. 264-5
Harrow, and John Farmer, i. 232                   Helen, and the soothing herb, ii. 189
   Butler's walks round, ii. 166, 204, 226,          and Troilus's chin, ii. 288
                                                  Hell and Death, Butler on the custody of
  some        Dr. 264,
      237,of260,           283 letters given to
                    Butler's                            the keys of, i. 441, 446, ii. 76
      the School, ii. 252                         Helmholtz, i. 234
Hartmann, Edward von, and Unconscious             Helps, Sir A., Friends in Council, i. 346-7
      Memory, i. 338, 340                         Helvetius, ii. 374
Hartog, Prof. Marcus, and Unconscious             Hemans, Mrs., and Mrs. Bloomfield
  and      on Butler
  article
      Memory
        Butler, (new
                 ii. 116 ed.), i. xxvii i. xxviii
                          in Scientia,                  Moore, i. 420
                                                     letter from her in the Life of Dr.
                                                        Butler, i. 420
  and the Erewhon dinners, ii. 417, 418,          Hemlock Bark, i. 196
     419, 420                                     Hendon, ii. 410
Harwich, Butler at, ii. 321, 379, 383                in " Ramblings
                                                  Henry                       England, i. ii.
                                                           VIII., KinginofCheapside,"       2 101
Haslemere, i. 289
Hats at the B.M., i. 250                          Henry, M. Fernand, translation of Shake
Hatt (Staple Inn), ii. 150-51, 302                      speare's Sonnets by, ii. 305
Hauff, Peter, ii. 297, 411                           Butler's letter to, on the same, ii. 305-6
Hauptmann, Rockstro and, ii. 126                     Butler to, on the Sonnets, ii. 316 foil.
Hawcis, Rev. H. R., i. 226                           and FitzGerald's Rukiiyat, ii. 322, 327,
Hay, Mr., and Narcissus, ii. 52                         333-4, 335
   Butler's letter to, ii. 53-4                      in London, ii. 335
Haycock, and Dr. Kennedy, i. 32, 397              Henty, Mrs., ii. 470
Haydn, i. 37, jo                                  Hephaestus, ii. 390
  his Farewell, i. 255                            Hercules, i. 141
Hayllar, i. 66-7                                  Hercules (Handel), i. 241, ii. 38
Haynes, E. S. P., i. xii                          Hering, Ewald, and Life and Habit, i.
  at the sixth Erewhon dinner, ii. 429                  271,346,408
Hazebruck, ii. 433                                   and Unconscious Memory, i. 331-2, 338,
" He who gave eyes to ears," i. 4 1 3                   340, ii. 425
Headingley, ii. 293                                  and Dr. Charles Creighton, ii. 42
Headlam, E. (St. John's Coll., Camb.), i.         Heron, Lake, i. 152
      45                                          Hertfordshire, i. 16
Heathcote, River, i. 75                           Hervey, Lord Arthur Charles (Bp. of Bath
Heatherley, Thomas, Butler attending his                and Wells\ i. 198
      School of Art, i. 127, 134/1//., 384        Hcsiod, ii. 8
  description of him, i. 127, 385                    Butler's translation of his JVorks and
  and Erewhon, i. 150                                   Days, ii. 434
  "Mr. Heatherley's Holiday," i. 201              Hess, Jerome, and Holbein, ii. 87-8
  his dislike of country air, i. 202              Hewitt, James, i. 230
   Miss Savage and, i. 207                        Hewitt, Rev. Thomas, i. 230
  "fatal self-deception of Heatherley's,"         Hewitt, William, i. 230
     i. 243                                       " Hey diddle diddle," Silvio on, i. 432, 433
. and The Way of All Flesh, i. 389-90             Hickman, Miss, ii. 109

500                           HIGGS — HUTTON
Higgs, Mr. [Erewhon Revisited), and           Hooker, Sir Joseph, his Handbooh of the
      George, i. 20, ii. 407                        New Zealand Flora, i. 1 1 6
   in Erevjhon Revisited, ii. 320-21, 351,       his daughter, i. 396
       354. 355. 357..407                     Hope, Anthony, ii. 391
   and the epitaph, ii. 380                   Horace, and Haydn, i. 37
Higb Anglican party, Butler's connection         and the Lamarckian system, ii. 29
      with the, ii. 339                          in "Ramblings in Cheapside," it lot
Hill, Mr. (Coin Room, B.M.), ii. 269          Horn, Mrs. Boss and the, ii. 378, 380
Hime, M. C, i. 298                            Hornby, Canon, at the Shrewsbury Dinner,
Hiuarlik, ii. 218, 219                              ii. 39
Hitchin, Worsley family connected with,       " Horse Shoe," Tottenham Court Road,
       i. 16                                         ii. 101
Hoare, Mrs. Charles, i. 198                   Hotel d'ltalie, Old Compton Street, ii. 297
Hoare, Henry, i. 98, 153, 171, 182, 190,      Hotel Drouot, ii. 300
        192, 198, 204, 227                    Houghton, Lord, i. 221-2
   finances Ertwhon, i. 149                   House of Commons, ii. 247
   hia companies, i. 195 foll^ 2o8, 210,      Housemaid, duties of a, i. 220
       266                                    " How gently do they that have riches
    failure, i. 211                                     • • •," i1- 45
   Butler's investments in hia companies,     u How to Make the Best of Life," ii. 101,
       L 313                                         205
   Butler's experiences with, used in The     Hudson, Prof. W. H ., at the sixth Erewhon
       Way of All Flesh, ii. 11                      dinner, ii. 429
 Hocken, T. M., i. 102                        Hueffer, Dr., ii. 90
 Hodson, Miss, ii. 283                        Hughes, Rev. George, i. 16
 Hogarth Club, i. 130                         Hughes, Grace (daughter of Rev. George
 Hobenstein, i. 288, 306                              Hughes, and wife of John Worsley).
 Hokitika Pass, i. 152                                See Worsley, Mrs. John
 Holbein, "La Danse" at Basel, Butler          Hughes, Dr. Reginald, at the fourth
        copying it, ii. 27, 40, 87                    Erewhon dinner, ii. 424
    and The Athenaeum, ii. 48-9               Humanitarian League, ii. 373
    and the Basel authorities, ii. 86         Humble and Meek, Butler on the, ii.
    " L'Affaire Holbein-Rippel," ii. 87               171-2
 Holbein's u La Danse." A Note m a draw       " Humour of Homer, The," Butler't
        ing in the Museum at Basel [1886] and         lecture on, delivered, ii. 123
        [1S89], bibliography, i. xxiii            his note about its reception, ii. 123
    published, ii. 88, 311                        and Mrs. X., ii. 136
 Holborn Restaurant, and the Coppos, ii.      Humour ofHomer, The (1892), bibliography,
        335                                           i. xxiv
    seventh Erewhon dinner at, ii. 429            published, ii. 131
 Holiday, the man with the unexpected, ii.        reviewed by The Spectator, it 132, 212
        3*3                                       and Biaggini, ii. 133
 Holland, Butler in, ii. 131                      its reception in England, ii. 1 37
 Holmes, Mr. C. J., ii. 428                       translated into Italian by a " black sea-
 Holroyd, Sir Charles, at the fifth Erewhon           captain," ii. 140
        dinner, ii. 428                           and Jowett, ii. 152
 Holy Communion, i. 30, 160                    Humour of Homer, The, and other Essays
 Holy Spirit, i. 178                                  (1913), H. F. Jones's Memoir of
 Holyoaice, G. J., i. 1 17                             Butler prefixed to, i. xi, ii. 258
 Homburg, ii. 272                                 bibliography, i. xxviii
  Homer, an un-self-conscious artist, i.          contents, ii. 101
         *3*                                   Humphries, E. W, L 103
    and La Belle Hilene, i. 273                Hunt, Holman, Grant Allen and, ii. 19
    one of the only two poets for Butler,         Butler's note on, ii. II
        ii. 84, 297, 320                       Hunt, Mr. (hairdresser), ii. 103
    Rembrandt's portrait of, ii. 297           Hunter, John, on Alfred Tylor's paper,
    See also Iliad, Odyssey                           I 434
 Homer, Mrs., ii. 123                          Hurlstone, Mr., ii. 413
 Homoeopathy, i. 130-31, ii. 412, 420          Hurunui, i. 81
 " Honest God, An," i. 212                     Hutchings, Mr. and Mrs., i. 13, 17
 Honvault, near Boulogne, and the Smythes,     Hutton, R. H., and A Psalm of Montreal,
        i. 366                                        I 277

                                    HUXLEY — ITALY                                                   501
  Huxley, Thomas Henry, and The Fair                              art, books,
                                                          "In plan,"      ii. 295 music there's no other
        Haven, i. 188
     on Animal Automatism, i. 263                         " In Memoriam H. R. F.," ii. 201-2
     his advice in the Darwin-Butler quarrel,                copy sent to Hans Faesch, ii. 205
        i. 326-7, ii. 425, 427, 453/1//.                     question of publishing it, ii. 205
     his volte-face, i. 342                                  published in the Note-Boohs, ii. 205
     Butler's " natural enemy," i. 385                   " In my cottage near a wood," i. 27
     Butler's desire to put him in some                  In Town, ii. 346
        other category from Handel and                   " Incarnate Bachelor," i. 140, ii. 14, 109
        Bellini, i. 408                                  Inconsistency, Canon Butler on, i. 12
    and Harblot, ii. 23                                  Indian Mutiny, ii. 251
    and Luck or Cunning? ii. 41                          Indifference, ii. 9, 248
    in Addenda for the Pontifex novel, ii.               Inea, ii. 217
        470                                              Infanticide, Butler on, ii. 74
 Hyde, Lord, i. 2-4                                      " Infirmus eram et visitasti me," ii. 329
 Hymns, at Peterborough, ii. 176                         Ingots, i. 110
 Hypereia, ii. 134, 157                                  Ingroja, Cavaliere Biagio, and " Not on
                                                                sad Stygian shore," i. xxvi
 " I fall asleep . . ," ii. 380                              Butler meets, at Calatafimi, ii. 161
 " I had a friend once . . .," ii. 15a                       and Garibaldi, ii. 161-2, 277
 lalcin coin, ii. 386-7                                      The   Authoress
                                                                him,              the Odyssey dedicated to
                                                                       ii. 162,of277
 Ibsen, Butler on, ii. 276
 Ida, ii. 221                                               at Segesta (1896), ii. 243
"Idleness,
   If you
Idylls      the
              Miss
         of are  King,
                 tooSavage
                      proud,
                        Butler too
                              on, and,
                                   i.lazy,
                                      246,
                                        ii. too
                                             391sulky
                                            321             letter to Butler on Narcissus, ii. 250
                                                            letter to Butler on receiving the dedica
                                                                tion of The Authoress, ii. 277
         . . .," ii. 254                                    at Calatafimi (1900), ii. 328-9
"II sait tout . . .," ii. 130                               and the Nelson picture, ii. 330
    Butler
Iliad,   andon,   ii. 324-5
               Garnett,   ii. 278                           at Trapani (1901), ii. 342
                                                            at Palermo (1902), ii. 392
    motto for Eretvhon Revisited taken from,                and "Via Samuel Butler," ii. 409-10
       »'• 353                                             Jones and, at Calatafimi (1903), ii. 411
       theThe,
             userendered
Iliad,original    (1898),
                  of  those into
                             bibliography,
                              whoEngliih
                                    cannot prose
                                              i. xxiv,
                                             read   the
                                                   for      death, ii. 414
                                                        Inman, Arnold, ii. 253
                                                        Inman, T. F., ii. 253
       xxvii                                            Inventories for Outings, ii. 472-3
   andNew John    Worsley*si. translation
               Testament,        16            of the   Inventors, i. 196
                                                        Inverness Terrace, i. 230
   progress of the work, ii. 183, 187, 190,             Ionians, ii. 387
       '95. >9°. '99>U3»*47. *5>                        Ireland forgeries, ii. 313
   specimen translation, ii. 197                        Ireland Scholarship, ii. 259
   finished, ii. 256                                    Irish University Bill, i. 174
   refused by John Murray, ii. 259-60                   " Irishman," i. 80
   no publisher willing to take it, ii.                 Ironside, Capt., i. 7
       265                                              Irony, ii. 407
   printing, ii. 294                                    Irving, Henry, i. 423
   published, ii. 297                                   Isabella, at Arona, i. 283-4
   preface quoted, ii. 298                                 and Miss Savage, i. 310, ii. a
   analysis of sales of, ii. 311                           at Florence, ii. 22, 211, 240
Ilium Novum, ii. 218                                    Iseo, Lago d'. See Lago a" Iseo
Illustrated London News, i. 137                         Ishmaelitish position, Butler's, ii. 39, 38a
Ilyssus, i. 201                                         Islington, pontificating at, i. 206
Imbros, ii. 217                                            and Madame, ii. 130
Immortality, The Tune and the Fiddle,                      Grand Pantomime at, ii. 320
      ii. 378 fill.                                        all well at, ii. 379
   Miss Butler and, ii. 406-7                           Israel in Egypt (Handel), i. 146
   Dudgeon and, ii. 413                                 Issime, ii. 57
   and the first Erewhon dinner, ii. 418                " It will all come right in the wash," i. 243
Impressions of Theophrastus Such, Miss                  Italian Gazette, The, Butler's articles in, i.
      Savage on, i. 309-10                                     xxiv, ii. 211
   quoted as to Romanes's treatment of                  Italy, Butler's first visit to, i. 25
      Butler, i. 409                                       first lessons in Italian, i. 26

                         ITALY — JONES (H. F.)
Italy (contd.)—                              Johnson, Miss (student at Heatherle/s), i.
   Butler fell in love with Italy at the age        142, 146
      of eight, i. 27                           her morals, i. 163, 211
   Butler's second country, i. 362              and daffodils, i. 329
Ithaca, and Trapani, ii. 124, 261, 262-3        her letter from Miss Savage quoted, i.
IvanAoe, ii. 347                                    380
Ivrea, ii. 57                                   Butler on her, i. 381
Ivy Cottage, ii. 254                            at Leigh, i. 426
                                             J ohore. Sultan of, ii. 226
Jack Johnsons, ii. 432                       J ones, Edward James, walks with Butler,
Jachanapes, and Miss Savage, i. 380                 i. 289
   and Butler, i. 381                           particulars of, i. 429-30
Jackson, Fred., ii. 266                         Butler's letter to (1884), i. 430-33, ii. 43
  ackaon, Holbrook, " Samuel Butler," i.        in England, ii. 66
      xxix                                      and the brass bowl, ii. 408
Jackson, Rev. I. Ruuell, Butler's letter     Jones, Henry Festing, Butler's narrative
      to, ii. 265-6                                 of his friendship with, i. vi, 231-2
Jackson (botanical secretary of the Linnean     obituary notice of Butler, i. xi
      Society), i. 433-4                        Diary ofa Journey, i. xi
Jacobs, Dean, i. 102                            Charles Darwin and Samuel Butler, i. xi
Jacques, Mr., i. 63                             parentage and birth, i. 228-9
Jaeger s, ii. 383                               education, i. 230
James, Thomas (head-master of Rugby),           admitted a solicitor, i. 230, 279
      i- 9                                      first meeting with Butler, i. 231, 235
Jameson Trial, ii. 247                           first communication from Butler, i. 270
J ason's gully (N.Z.), ii. 104                  and Butler's portrait of himself (1878),
J ebb,Homer,
        Richard Claverhouse, Introduction to        i. 280
               ii. 233                          writing songs and poetry, i. 280
   at the Shrewsbury Speeches, ii. 248-9        meets Butler in Italy, i. 281 foil.
Jenkins, and Plotinus and Novalis, ii. 276      his relations with Butler, i. 286, ii. 257,
Jephtha (Handel), i. 143, 146-7                     349
Jericho, walls of, i. 419                       danger of Butler's undermining his
Jesus versus Christianity, t. 20 1, 202             spiritual and moral nature, i. 289
"Jesus! with all thy faults . . .," i.          Sunday walks with Butler, i. 289 foil.
       183                                      and Miss Savage, i. 310-11
Jesus Christ, on the respective merits of       living in New Ormond Street, i. 329
      prose and poetry, ii. 26                  tired of trampling on his mother, i.
   Butler on the importance of laying his           3J4-5
      ghost, ii. 74                             moves to Barnard's Inn, i. 361-2
   offered a bun at Monte Oliveto, ii. 86       his pictures in Alps andSanctuaries, i. 363
   his crucifixings, ii. 87                     writing music, i. 385
   and Jullien, ii. 93                          and The Way of All Flesh, i. 389
    Butler feels like, ii. 235                  Butler's letters to, about pictures on the
   why he never edited his works, ii. 315           Continent, i. 392, 394-5
   and Ereu>hon Revisited, ii. 338, 356-7       his portrait of Butler, i. 396
Jeudwine, J., of Shrewsbury School, and         and "The Lord is King," i. 433
      Dr. Butler, i. 9, ii. 252                 on being too good to one's parents, ii. 4
   and Pauli, ii. 287                           gives up the law, ii. 47
Jewess, i. 208                                  financial arrangement with Butler, ii.
  'rwish Chronicle, i. 255                          47. 3*6-7
Jews, the return to Palestine of the, i.        his letters from Varallo and Milan to
      383, ii. 129                                  Gogin, ii. 54 foil.
Joachim, and Mdlle. Vaillant, i. 236            and Mrs. R. C. Grosvenor, ii. 94-5,
   and Mendelssohn, ii. 91                          1 17, 120
Joanna, described by James Butler, i. 6         and Ulysses, ii. 105, 197
Job, Book of, and The Way of All Flesh,         moves to Staple Inn, ii. 150
      ii. 1, 2                                  his picture of "Trapani and the
Joesoepof, Prince, ii. 296, 297                     Islands," ii. 186
John Bull, i. 262                               Butler's soberest friend, ii. 273
John Inglesant, Butler on i 373                 and Rembrandt's " Staalmcestcrs," ii.
   in Byle's Eating House, ii. 69
Johnians, i. 107                                not poetically minded, ii. 321

                               JONES (H. F.) — LAGO                                                             5°3
 Jones, Henry Feating (contd.)—                          Kennedy, Benjamin Hall [contd.)—
    death of his mother, ii. 326                            Butler and, at Cambridge (1880), L
    a British subject, ii. 327                                  347-8
    and Ernvhon Revisited, ii. 347, 353                     and Butler's candidature for the Slack
    Butler's legacies to, ii. 403                              professorship, ii. 30, 33, 39
    moves to Maida Vale, ii. 403-4                          and Dr. Butler, ii. 78, 81, 265, 266-7
    visit to Sicily with Butler's MSS., ii.                 Butler's caricature
                                                         Kennington,        Ashford,of,         81 265
                                                                                           ii. ii.
       410-11
    and the Erewhon dinners, ii. 417 foil.               Keir, Miss Grainger,
                                                         Kettle-holders,        Butlerii. and         420 Savage
                                                                                              413, Miss
    his papers on Butler, ii. 420, 421
    and Francis Darwin, ii. 425/0//.                           on, i. 423-6
          Miss Lilian
Jones,blossoms     for Alfred's     wedding,
                               I., and         ii. 198
                                          the orange     Keys
                                                            Miss    Hell andtwelve
                                                                of Savage's       of Death,          Butler i.on436
                                                                                              Christian,         the
    Butler's letters to, ii. 294-5, 361 fill.           Kidney,     Harry
                                                               custody         the, i. 441,
                                                                            of Nicholls        and446 a, i. 420, ii
    settles at Hampstead, ii. 335
    moves
Jones,       to Maida
         Thomas,           Vale,230
                      i. 228,      ii. 403-4                   86
                                                        King    Henry's
                                                        Killiney,    ii. 318 Road, ii. 37
  ones, Mrs. Thomas, i. 229, 231
    and Butler, i. 419, 430, ii. 372                    King Lear, ii. 324
Jonson, Ben, and Garnett, ii. 2S0                       Kingsbury,
                                                        King's
                                                        Kingsdown,
                                                        King Street
                                                        Kingsley, Bench
                                                                  College,
                                                                      Charles,
                                                                        ii.(Whitehall
                                                                          i. Walk,
                                                                             260
                                                                              366
                                                                               London,
                                                                                     and     Romanes,
                                                                                        i. 228 ii. 373 ii. i.344
                                                                                              Estate),          404,
    and Butler, ii. 280
Jordan, water from the, i. 18
    river-god of the, ii. 304
Joshua Davidson, i. 172
Jourdain, Monsieur {Le Bourgeois Genlil-
       homme), i. 414
Jowett, Benjamin, and Butler at the                           405,Rudyard,
                                                        Kingsley,
                                                        Kipling,      Mrs. Henry,
                                                                      406           ii. 293 i. 267, 354
       Shrewsbury Speeches, ii. 152-3
J
Jubilee
  allien, (1897),
           and theii.Lord's
                         272 Prayer, ii. 92-3              "The Islanders," ii. 365 and note,
                                                               368
  upp, Mrs. {The Way ofAll Flesh), drawn               Knitting,
                                                       Kirschen
                                                       Kit's           House,
                                                                CotyWasser,
                                                                     Miss     Savage    3 3and,
                                                                                  i.i. 251  3      i. 412 foil
      from Mrs. Boss, i. 243, 392, 415, ii.10
   and Donna Maria, ii. 328
   and insipidity, ii. 471                             Koran, i. Warwickshire,
                                                       Knockholt,
                                                       Knowle,       262i. 116                i. 22
Just and Unjust, ii. 423
  ute, i. 196
                                                       Krause, Ernst,
                                                       /Cosmos.     See Krause,  article Ernstin       Kosnsos on
Karstens,
Keats, Butler
Kalendarfor  Miss,
                Lads,
                  and,
                     i. 246,
                          ii. 421
                         ii.     250 324
                              321,
                                                              Erasmus Darwin, and Erasmus Dar
                                                              win, i. 319 fill., 370-72, ii. 60, 75,
Kelso,
   essayi.on,
            v by Robert Bridges, ii. 323-4                    4*7.447 fill-
                                                           Unconscious Memory and, i. 338 fill., ii.
Kempe, Miss (afterwards Mrs. Stacy                            455/0//.
Kenilworth,
      Marks), Butler
                 i. 220 family moves to, i. 1              his Charles Danuin, ii. 28-9, 463///.
                                                       Kyllene, ii. 216
   the Stone House, i. 2, 4, 8, ii. 52, 403            Kynaston (formerly Snow), Canon, i. 46,
   the Butlers' Pantry in the church at, i.                   5*. 54
      3, ii. 52
   Sion House, i. 3                                    I        , Miss, i. 186
   beer, i. 5                                          " La ci darem " (Handel's Athaliah), ii. 53-
   taverns, i. 6                                              S4
Kennedy,
   and the Life
              Benjamin
                    of Dr. Hall,
                              Butler,Butler
                                       ii. 81 under,   La Marmora, Gen, and Pietro di Stcfanis,
                                                              ii. no
      at Shrewsbury, i. 32                             La Rese, ii. 67
   and The Way of All Flesh, i. 32-3                   " La vita 4 un dolor," ii. 270
   note on him by Butler, i. 34-5                      Ladies' Guild, i. 305
   note on his grammars, i. 39                         Lady, an imperfect, ii. 192
   on a theme of Butler's, i. 40-41                    Lady, The, or the Tiger t ii. 240-41
   taught to eat on scientific principles, i.          Lady Artists' Exhibition, i. 304-5
      43.                                              Ladywcll, ii. 301
   a genius, i. 154                                    Laestrygonians, ii. 144, 146, 245-6, 260
   and Darwin, i. 260                                   Lago d' Iseo, ii. 58

 5o4                         LAMARCK — LIFE
 Lamarck, Butler's defence of hit view*, i.    Layard, Sir A. H., and Ex Voto, ii. 382
       257/.//.                                Layton, Mr. and Mrs. T., ii. 52
   and the reviews of Life and Habit, i. 270,  " Le mieux est l'ennemi du bien," ii. 334
       *7'                                     Le Muy, ii. 327
   ind Charles Darwin, i. 272, ii. 456         Lean, Col. Alexander, i. 103
   Jones a confirmed Lamarckian, i. 285           Butler's correspondence with, ii. 169-
   and Evolution Old and Acu\ i. 291, 299             "74. 39'
      foil., 319                               Lear,
                                               Lecocq,
                                               Lecco,
                                               Lectures,
                                               Leather
                                               Leather,
                                              Ledbury, Edward,   59
                                                         ii.i.Lane,
                                                                  232
                                                                   196,
                                                                   139ii.
                                                                        i. 222
                                                               i.Butler's,   ii. 277
                                                                            272
                                                                            306
   and adaptation, ii. 29
    and Luck or Cunning? ii. 43
Lamb, Charles and Mary, and Blakesware,
       i. II
   F. S. Cary's portrait, i. 115
 Lamb, Charles, and the Carys, i. 9, 1 14-15
   and Mrs. Field, i. 11                      Lee, Mr. Sidney, and the Garnett portrait,
   his Essays stolen from Miss Savage's              ii. 301
      club, 1. 35.4                              and "the onlie begetter," ii. 325
   Butler on, i. 355, 382                        and Rev. H. C. Beeching, ii. 373
   and Ulyua, ii. 38, 105, 231                           article on ii.oral
                                                 hitShakespeare,                373 traditions about
Lamb, Mary, i. 1 1
 Lamb, Ynyr, i. 47                               and the Dictionary of National Biography,
 Lambert It Butler, ii. 379                         "• 373
Lamiruschini, II, Butler's articles in, ii.   Lefroy (murderer), i. 354
       149, 156                               " Legittimo," i. 307
Lancaster Gate, ii. 421                       Lehmann, Miss Amelia (afterwards Mrs.
Land of the Unborn, i. 161                          Barry Pain), ii. 109
Land-fish at Marettimo, ii. 189               Lehmann, Rudolph, ii. 109
Landlords, Miss Savage on the desirability    Leigh, Lord, i. 2-4
      of a place in hell being reserved for,  Lemnos, ii. 217
      i. 294                                  Lenno, ii. 100
   Miss Savage on Butler at a landlord, i.    Lerici, i. 10, 387
       35°-7. 357-*. 359                      Lesse, ii. 219
Landor, Walter Savage, i. 9                   " Let those who like it work and slave,"
Lang, Andrew, and The Authoress, ii. 304            i. 246
Langar, in J. B. Firth's Highways and         Lethe, i. 431
      Byways in Nottinghamshire, i. xxix      " Letter, The, killeth . . ," i. 143
   S. Butler born at, i. 1                    Letters, Butler on, i. ix-x
   Canon Butler and, i. 13                    Levanzo, ii. 139, 186-7
   the nursery at, i. 19                      Levity and heaviness, ii. 75, 275
   water-colours of, by Butler, i. 44         Lewes, G. H., and Goethe, i. 217
   the drawing-room reproduced in "Family           Works,
                                                 Butler         and,     in Selections from Previous
                                                                    i. 405
       Prayers," i. 115
   Butler at, i. 1 17                         " Lewis, St.," i. 262-3, "• '4
   Butler there for the last time, i. 243     Lewis, Lawrence, i. 223
   its Index, i. 274                          Leyde, Luca di, picture attributed to, at
   the orchestra in the church at, i. 399           Modem, i. 394
   Jones at, ii. 414 /"-//.                   Li Baasi, Angelo, ii. 392
Lankester, Ray, his letter to Nature on       Liberalism, Butler on, ii. 172
      Hering and Memory, i. 257, 259,         Liberia, i. 62-3
      171. 332                                Lichfield and Coventry, Dr. Samuel Butler,
   his letter to The Athenaeum on its re            bishop of, i. 9, 18
      view of Romanes's Mental Evolution      Liebig, Agricultural Chemistry, i. 74
      in Animals, i. 409                                430-31
                                              Life, i.and     Death (letter to Edward J. Jones),
   and the medusa scandal,!. 411, 413
   Butler's account of his treatment of          a dream, ii. 78
      himself in a letter to Mr. Salter, i,      like a violin solo, ii. 102
      4"->3                                      the True Life, ii. 380
   and Luck or Cunning f ii. 43                  an omnium gatherum, ii. 436
   Butler and his brother and sister, ii. 348 Life and Habit (1878), bibliography, i. xxii
Laos, ii. 41 1                                   beginnings of, i. 212-13, 232-4
Lawrence, Lord, and Mist Buckley, i. 360,           444-5
                                                 letter   to T. W. G. Butler on, i. 234, ii.
      382

                                     LIFE          LLOYD                                                  505
Life and Habit (cmtd.)—                            Life and Letters of Dr. Samuel Butler
   progressing, i. 239, 248                              (contd.)—
  quoted as to Grace and the Law, i.                  accepted by John Murray on com
      239-40                                             mission, ii. 227
  quoted as to believing, i. 240, 447, ii. 4 1 S      to be shortened, ii. 227, 235
   Butler oppressed and frightened by, i.             finished, ii. 247
      242-3, 264                                      published, ii. 252
  a great anxiety, i. 249                             MS. given to Shrewsbury, ii. 252
   Butler thoroughly absorbed in, i. 154              Butler's principal interest in, ii. 251
   Butler on, i. 255-6, 390                           Tillbrook and, ii. 253-4, 273
   and Francis Darwin, i. 257 fill., ii. 426          well received, ii. 254-5, 259
   published, i. 261                                  analysis of the sales of, ii. 311
   resume or
   serious        i. 265 i. 266, ii. 212
             of, ironical?                            The Guardian and, ii. 356
                                                      and this Memoir, ii. 436
   reviews of, i. 269, 271, 273, 316, ii. 49       " Light, The, of the World " (Holman
   " Some breeds do," i. 269-70                           Hunt), ii. 21
   and Hering, i. 271, 332, 408, 412, 424,         Ligornetto, i. 306, ii. 40
      ii. 426                                      Lilyboean promontory, ii. 121, 135, 260
   Canon Butler and, i. 273-4                      Lima, i. 109
   took Butler's breath away, i. 288               Limma, redundant, ii. 229
   Trllbner and, i. 294                            Lincoln Cathedral, ii. 14
  quoted in connection with Evolution Old          Lincoln'! Inn Fields, and Ap'mm gravet-
      and New), i. 300 foil.                             lens, ii. 268, 404
   its connection with Unconscious Memory,         Linnean Society, Alfred Tylor' s paper
      '• 339. 34°i 34*                                Butler's
                                                      Butler
                                                         before
                                                      resume      of
                                                                  the,
                                                                    the
                                                               onnote Tylor's
                                                                 notice on,of,
                                                                            433-5
                                                                              i. in
                                                                                  43paper
                                                                        i.Society,     i. 434
                                                                                      3-5
                                                                                      The     in Luck
                                                                                            Times,     i. 435or
   Butler on Darwin in, i. 370
   Mr. Spurgeon in, i. 405 note
   Alfred Tylor and, i. 410-1 1
   Diderot and, i. 424
   Seebohm and, i. 435                                   Cunning? ii. 43
   The Way of All Flak and, ii. 3                  Linton, Sir James D., i. 138
   Vianna de Lima and, ii. 30                      Lisieux, Butler at (1883), i. 391
   and religious controversy, ii. 41               Lister, Joseph, Lord, ii. 190
   and Luck or Cunning ? ii. 42                    Literary Foundlings (1864), i. 102, 106
   Herbert Spencer and, ii. 42                     Literary World, and The Fair Haven, L
   Dr. Charles Creighton and, ii. 42                      186
   Mr. Blunt and, ii. 52-3                            and "Rome and Pantheism," i. 373
   and "The Deadlock in Darwinism,"                Literature, and The Authoress, ii. 280
      ii. 97                                          " that odious paper," ii. 364
   analysis of the sales of, ii. 311               Littlehampton, i. 361
   at the Morses', ii. 374                         Liverpool, i. 228
Lift and Habit. New edition (1910), i. xxvii       Living in Others, ii. 204, 205
Life and Letters ofDr. Samuel Butler (litjb),      Livorao, and Sig. Pietro Prcda, ii. 84
      his
      taught
           books,
                Butler
                     i. vi,more
                             237 than any other of Lizarda, ii. 189
                                                   Lloyd, Ven. Archdeacon, i. 10, 1 1
  Butler on, i. x                                  Lloyd, Mrs. Archdeacon (Harriet Butler),
   autobiographical material in, i. xi                    i. 10, II, 35, 166, 199
   bibliography, i. xxi, xxir                         "wonderful," i. 288-9
   quoted as to Dr. Butler's visit to Italy           her translation desired, i. 293, 305
      in 1822, i. 10, 387, ii. 242                    her death, i. 329
  as a school prize, i. 356                           effect of her death on Canon Butler's
   inception, ii. 71-2                                      Mr. W.i. E.
                                                      andincome,       336Heitland, ii. 264
   collecting material for, ii. 81
   closely occupied with, ii. 105                  Lloyd, Edward, ii. 332
   Jowett and, ii. 1 53                            Lloyd, George Butler (son of William
   itanding on one side, ii. 173                         Lloyd), i. xii, 1 1, ii. 409
   MS. with John Murray, ii. 183                   Lloyd, Ven. Archdeacon Thomas (son of
   offered to publishers, ii. 195, 196, 199,          andArchdeacon
                                                      at  Canon    Butler's
                                                            the Whitehall, Lloyd),      i. 11ii.ii. 52
                                                                                   i. 166,
                                                                                deathbed,            45
      206
      Press,
  refused
      ii. 198-9
             by
              ii. 198;
                   the and     Butler's comments,
                           Cambridge    University
                                                   Lloyd, William (son of Archdeacon Lloyd),
                                                         i. 11.

 506                       LOAM — MAGAZINE
 Loam, redooced, ii. 151                     " Lucobratio Ebria," i. xxii, xxvii, 233
 Lobster, i. sll, 255                        Lucy, Wordsworth's, i. 330-31, ii. 65, 66,
 Locarno, ii. 247
 Logic and consistency, ii. 404              Ludgate Hill, ii. 355
 Logomachy, King, i. 351                     Lugano, ii. 247
 Logsdail, William, ii. 303, 342             Luino, ii. 60, 247
 Lombardo, ii. 300                           Lumachi, ii. 189
 London Bridge, i. 142, ii. 376              Lunacy and Crime, ii. 424
 London School Board, and Miss Helen         Lyell, Sir Charles, i. 316
      Taylor, i. 401                         Lying. See Savage, Miss E. M. A.
    and Miss Savage, i. 443                  Lynn, i. 83
   and an old Italian Member of Parlia       Lyons, ii. 128
       ment, ii. 299                         Lyttelton, i. 75, 105
 London University, ii. 293                  Lytton, Lord, and Erewhon, i. 155, 190
 Long Reach Tavern, ii. 13                     and H. F. Jones, ii. 360-61
 Longmans, Green it Co., Butler and, i. 294
    and Dr. Butler's Geography, ii. 50, 276  Mabillon, L'Abbe, quoted, ii. 62
    and The Authoress, ii. 276, 304         MacCarthy, Desmond, i. xii
    and the Sonnets book, ii. 305              article on Butler in the ^uarterlyRcvirw,
    and Erewhon Revisited, ii. 339                 i. xxviii
    and a new edition of Ex Voto, ii. 377      on the exploring quality of Butler's
 Lonsdale, John (Bp. ofLichfiela), ii. 255         humour, ii. 74-5
M Lord, The, is King . . .," i. 433            and Butler at Saps Fee, ii. 99
Lord's Prayer, Butler and the, ii. 5           at the Erewhon dinners, ii. 417, 424,
   Jullien and the, ii. 92-3                       428, 430
Lome, Marquis of, in Queen Victoria's          on Butler's religion, ii. 430
      journal, i. 429                       MacCarthy, Mrs., and The ffay *f All
Lotto, Lorenzo, i. 128, ii. 67                     Flesh, ii. 99
Louvre, The, and the Bellini heads, ii. 27, MacColL Norman, and The Athenaeum, ii.
      joJVL                                        28
Love, Butler not in, i. 96                     and Butler's theory about "La Danse,"
Lovere, ii. 58                                    ii. 48-9
Loving and Hating, Butler on, in a letter      Butler and, at the British Museum, ii.
      to E. J. Jones, i. 43 1                      367-8
Lowe, Mrs., and Miss Savage, i. 271, 315    M*Cormick, Canon Joseph, on Butler, L
   and whist, i. 328
   and Patience, i. 338                        his bazaar, L 191
   her action at law, i. 424-5                 and Miss Savage, i. 400-401
Lowood, ii. 253                                and The Way of All Flesh, ii. 8, 286,
Lucas, E. V., Life of Charles Lamb, u II          469
      note                                     at the second Erewhon dinner, ii. 419
Lucerne, and Alfred, ii. 209-10, 247        M'Culloch, G., i. 141, 200, 249
   and Dr. Mandell Creighton, ii. 302       "M'Dermott, Mr.," i. 400-401
Luch or Cunning t (1887), bibliography, !•  Macfarren, Sir George, and Handel, i.
      xxiii, xxvi                                 428
   quoted in connection with God the           and Palestrina, ii. 164
      Known and God the Unhnown, i. 302     Machiavellian Discourses upon the Firse
   things to be put into, i. 410, 412-13          Decade of Livy, i. 78
   going to be his best, i. 439             McMillan and Mesopotamia, ii. 104
   getting on fast, ii. 30                  Macmillan tc Co., Butler's letter to, as
   announced, ii. 34                              publishers of Nature, i. 350, ii. 459
   nearly printed, ii. 41                      and this Memoir, ii. 43;
   Butler to Mrs. Tylor on, ii. 41          Macmillan's Magazine, i. 126
   dedicated to the memory of Alfred        " Madame," Butler and, ii. 128 foil.
      Tylor, ii. 41-2                       Madame Angot, i. 232
   published, ii. 42                        Madeira described by James Butler, t. 5
   summary of, ii. 42-4                     Madingley, i. 83
   Academy review of, ii. 44                Madras, i. 6
   and "The Deadlock in Darwinism," ii.     Maeterlinck, Butler on, ii. 275-6
      95                                    Mafeking, Relief of, ii. 329
   analysis of the sales of, ii. 311        Magazine ofArt, and Alps and Sanctuaries,
"Lucrece," ii. 295, 308, 321                      i. 367

                          MAGDALEN — MEO (G.)                                          507
Magdalen
Mahdi, ii. College,
             300       Oxford, i. 121           Martyn, Dr. King, his Cuyp portraits, ii.
                                                      48
Maidstone,
Maida Vale,i. ii.
                333403, 412, 413                   and the In mans, ii. 253
                                                Mary, Huten of Scon, in " Ramblings in
Maitland, F. WM Life of Lttlit Stephen,                Cheapside," ii. 101
      quoted, i. 209                             Mary Jane, i. 221
Maitland, Miss [The Way of All Flesh), i.       Marziale, Marco, and the Bellini heads,
      60-61, 398, ii. 363
Malabar opera, i. 6                             Marzo, E.,
                                                Mase,         pseudonym
                                                          Monsignore        adopted
                                                                       di, ii. 192 by Miss
Maiden, Mr. Arthur, ii. 244
Malina, Vice - Chancellor, and mice, i.               Savage, i. 242
      3"                                         Masolino, picture by, at Modena, i. 394
Mallock, Mr. W. H., ii. 370                     Massey, Gerald, ii. 318
M alone, Edmond, ii. 316 and note, 318-19       Masaey, Miss, at Miss Savage's funeral, i.
Malta, ii. 327                                        440
Mammon      of i.Righteousness,
      and the,                    Miss206Savage
                   345, 369, ii. 34,            Matthew, St., hit gospel, i. 118, 196
                                                Maudsley on the Brain, i. 203-4
Man and Wife, ii. 391                           May, Arthur, i. 157
Man-Milliner, ii. 86                            " May he be cursed for evermore," ii. 65
" Manchester's the place for me," i. 306        Mayor, J. E. B., his lectures, i. 45-6
Manning, Thomas, Lamb to, on the                   and li. F. Jones, i. 46
      Adventure* of Ulysses, ii. 231               and the Life of Dr. Butler, ii. 81, 255,
Maori, Butler taken for a, i. 77, 152                 265
   story of soldiers at a shilling apiece, i.      Butler to, on the Life of Dr. Butler and
                                                      Tie Authoress, ii. 273
Maoris, half cannibal, i. 109                   " Me," i. 404, 444
Marettimo, ii. 124, 139                         Mead, ii. 4
   Butler at, ii. lib foil.                     Measles, ii. 266
Maria, Donna (Calatafimi), ii. 328, 410         Measure for Measure, quoted on the title-
Marks, Alfred, Butler's letter to, ii. 70             page of Butler's Sonnets book, ii. 305
   at Butler's funeral, ii. 400                 Meaux, ii. 432
Marks, Mrs. Alfred, ii. 70                      " MechanicaLThe, Creation." Set " Darwin
Marks, Henry Stacy, and Mist Kempt, i.                among the Machines "
      220                                       Mechanics' Institution, i. 197
   and Butler, i. 276                           "Medieval Girl School, A" (Universal
  and Butler's candidature for the Slade              RevitvS), ii. 88
      Professorship, ii. 33                     Mediterranean, storms in the, i. 387-8
   and Alfred Marks, ii. 70                     Medusa, Ray Lankester and the, i. 41 1,
Marquis (cat), ii. 129-30                             413
Marriage, Reginald Wortley and, i. 140          Meien, ii. 236, 250
   Hamlet and, i. 247                           Meiklcjohn, Mr., i. 247
   Miss Savage on, i. 385-6                     Melanthius, ii. 149
   Butler and, i. 436, ii. 12, 13               Melchisedec, Butler on, i. 367
" Marriage a la mode," ii. 280                  Memory, and mistakes, i. 432-3
Marriott, Sir W. TM proposed tour with             Butler's, ii. 26
      Butlerletters,
   Butler's                48 ii. 76, 363
              (1856),i. i.97-8,                 Memphis, ii. 388, 390
                                                Mendel, and Bateson, i. 318
  and John Morley, i. 153-4                        and Butler, ii. 97
   and Butler's candidature for the Slade       MendelejefPs Law, ii. 44
      Professorship, ii. 33                     Mendelssohn, and the Taylors, i. 27-8
Marsala, ii. 144                                   his Song1 Without Words, i. 50
   and Garibaldi, ii. 161, 300                     and Ernest, i. 51
Marsala, and Sabbaglione, ii. 108                  and the Devil's Bridge, i. 281
   at Camino, ii. 290                              Butler on his Elijah, i. 295
Marshman, John, spiritual seance at his            John Worsley on, ii. 35
      house, 1. 127, 316-18                        in " Ramblings in Cheapside," ii. 101
Martin, Ca|it. (of the Fansittart), i. 6           Rockstro under, ii. 126
Martin (photographer), ii. 175                  Mendrisio, i. 239, 250, 306
Martin Chiaxlcuiit, i. xxvi                     Mentone, i. 185, 189, ii. 4. 5
Martina, La, i. 307, ii. 55, 108, 328           Mco, Gaetano, Butler and, i. 135-6, 147
Martineau, Harriet, i. 247                         and Mrs. X, ii. 367
Martineau, James, ii. 5                            at Butler's funeral, ii. 400

 508                          MEO (L.) — MOON
 Mm, I.uigi. i. 135-6                           Mill, John Stuart, and his wife, i. 401
 Meole Brace, near Shrewsbury, i. 10, 13        Milton, and music, ii. 84
    Butler's visits to, while at school, i. 35    as a cancelling medium, ii. 363-4, 372,
   and Rev. Henry Bather, i. 355                      378
 Mcrcure de France, i. xxvii                   Mind, article on Butler in, i. xxviii
Mercury, ii. 304                                Minina, Don, ii. 113,137
 Meredith, George, and Butler in The            Minnesingers, ii. 280
       Cambridge History of English Litera      Miracles, and The Fair Haven, i. 120foil.
       ture, i. xxix                              and amber, ii. 185
    as reader to Chapman & Hall condemns          results of supposed, ii. 338
       Erewhon, i. 148                            and a letter to H. F. Jones, ii. 376
    Butler's note on this, i. 148              Mivart, Prof. St. George, Butler's corre
    and Butler at Palermo, ii. 391                    spondence with, i. 183, 406-8
 Merian, Baron, and the Life f Dr. Butler,         Genesis of Species, i. 257 foil., 407, ii.
       ii. 85-6                                       434
    quoted on the title-page of Butler's           calls Darwin's theory "puerile," i.
       Iliad, ii. 297                                 291
 Merman and Grampus (The Impressions of           and Burton, i. 310
        Theophrastus Such), i. 409                and Butler's books, i. 406
 Merode, Card, di, ii. 113                      Modena, i. 394
 Merry, W. W., Odyssey, ii. 377                Modern Thought, and the Bp. of Carlisle,
 Mesocco, i. 306                                         345
" Mesopotamia," H. F. Jones's drawing of,       Moir, Dr. Byres, ii. 398, 403, 405
       i. xix, 86                               " Molecular Action of Thought," i. 117
    Butler at, i. 86-8                         Moliere, and Erewhon, i. 158, ii. 439
   J. D. Enys on, i. 104, ii. 103-4                his housemaid, i. 206
    and Erewhon, i. 151                           his Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme and
    W. Pember Reeves on, ii. 169-70                   Narcissus, i. 414-15
Messiah (Handel), Quadrilles, i. 226              reception of an English translation of
    conducted by Handel at Cambridge, i.              by the French, ii. 316
       230                                     Mollica family, ii. 277
   and Butler's "Advertisement" picture,       Monaco, Don Lorenzo, Nativity by, at
      i. 249                                          Modena, i. 394
   quoted, i. 414                              Moncalvo and Crea, ii. 249
   cuddling the, ii. 10                        Moncricrt", Hope, i. 280
   additional accompaniments for, ii. 65       Money, the sin against, ii. 470
   and Gopsall, ii. 77                         Monks, i. 251
   and Paestum, ii. 243                        Monreale, and Ravenna, ii. 303
Messina, the 1908 disaster, ii. 182            Monro, D. B., Odyssey, ii. 377
Messina, Capitano, ii. 140-41                  Mons, ii. 431-2
Mctx, ii. 291                                  Mont St. Michel, Butler at (1883), i. 391
Michaud, Biographie smiverselle quoted as      Montaigne, i. 202
      to Card. Joseph Fesch, ii. 165           Monte Bisbino, i. 250
Michelangelo, and Rossura Porch, i. 285        Monte Elimo, ii. 193
   in " Rumblings in Cheapside," ii. 101       Monte Oliveto, Butler at, ii. 86-7
   Butler and, ii. 381                         Monte Rosa, ii. 410, 419
Midas, King (Cima), i. 394                     Monte Rosa, II, i. xxv
Middle Temple, i. 142                          Monte San Giuliano. See Eryx (Mount)
Middlemarch, i. 160, 184, 1 8J, 190, 268,      MontgolBer (balloonist), i. 28
      ii. 209                                  Monthly Review, R. A. Streatfeild on
Middleton, C. H., elected Slade Professor            Butler in the, i. xxv, 363
      at Cambridge, ii. 33                        Miss Sichel on Erewhon Revisited in
Midhurst, Butler at (1881), i. 361                   the, ii. 370
Midsummer Night's Dream (Mendelssohn),         Montreal, Butler at, i. 212 foil., ii. 124
      wedding march in, ii. 54                    and the " Psalm," i. 218-20
"Mieux, Le, est 1'cnnemi du bien," ii.         Montreal Mountain, i. 213, 218
      333, 334                                 Montreal Museum, i. 218
Milan, Brera (Bellini heads), ii. 26-7, 31-2   Montrealler, i. 218
   Biblioteca Ambrosiana, ii. 249              Montrigone, ii. 69
   Biblioteca Nazionale, Brera, ii. 249        Moody and Sankey, i. 221
Mile End, ii. 413                              Moon, Butler and the, i. 282, ii. 234
Milk, in Sicily, ii. 246                          Alfred and the, ii. 125

                           MOORE — NATIONAL                                         509
Moore, Mrt. Bloomfield, and Browning at     Murray, John {contd.)—
      St. Moritz, i. 419-20, ii. 372           and Butler's translations of the Iliad
   her poems, i. 420                              and Odyssty, ii. 259-60
Moore, Thomai. See Gazelle                     and The Authoress, ii. 267, 273-4, 275
Moor house, Ben, i. 105                        and Paget's Book, ii. 267
Moorhoute, W. S., i. 105, 106, 128          Musa Polinnia, La, ii. 167-8, 241
   Butler's mortgagee, i. 169-70            Mushroom ketchup, ii. 13
   Sir J. S. Williams's note on him, i. 170 Mussels, i. 378
   Butler's strange attitude towards, i.    Mutton, i. 87
       170-71, 443, ii. 362                 " My Duty towards My Neighbour," ii.
Morbelli, Angelo, i. 288, 306, ii. 195,           292
      410                                   Mycenae, ii. iijfoll., 327
More, Henry (d. 1687), The Mystery of       Myers, F. W. H., i. 232
      Godliness, i. 64                      Mystery of Owen Parfitt, ii. 252, 390
Morell, Dr., and Handel, i. 414
   imitated in Narcissus, i. 416            " Nabob Pickles," i. 249
   hit style, i. 416                        Nairn, Dr., ii. 420
Morley, John, i. 153-4                      Namur, and Tabachetti, ii. 66, 98, 384
Moroni, pictures by, at Bergamo, i. 328     Napier, N.Z., i. 153
Morris, Sir Lewis, Butler on, i. 417, ii.   Naples, Bertolini's Palace Hotel, ii. 393
      293                                   Napoleon Bonaparte, his possible connec
Morse, Mr. Sydney, ii. 21                         tion with "The Ballad of Wednet-
Morse, Mrs. Sydney, i. xii                        bury Cocking," i. 348
Morses, Butler and the, i. 410, 417, ii.       and Laetitia Ramolino, ii. 165
      368,374,383..                         Narcissus. By Samuel Butler and Henry
Moses, and the Positivists, i. 198                Festing Jones (1888), bibliography, i.
   and the Prophets, i. 232                       xxiv
Most, Rev. H. W. (headmaster of Shrews         last chorus in, i. 33, 295
      bury School), Butler gets a half         begun, i. 414-15
     holiday out of, i. 34, 393                imitatea Handel and Dr. Morell, i. 414,
  and the Life of Dr. Sutler, i. 356              416, 424
   and Butler at the Shrewsbury Dinner,        Miss Savage and, i. 415, 428-9
      "' 39                                    announced, i. 424, 425
   and Narcissus, ii. 53-4                     " O Speculation ! " chorus, i. 427
   and Kennedy, ii. 266                       growing, i. 439
Motya, ii. 144, 147                            Butler's sisters and, ii. 7
Moulton, near Spalding, ii. 265, 268           rehearsal of, ii. 37
Mount Arrowsmith, ii. 171                     tome of the music performed, ii. 5a
Mount Cook, i. 81                              published, ii. 64
Mountains, Butler on the naming of, i.         plan of, ii. 64
      104                                      directions to possible performers, ii. 65
Mowbray, A. R., & Co., ii. 421                 words mostly by Butler, ii. 105
Mozart, and Handel, i. 37, 50                  performed at Mrs. Beavington Atkin
   and Butler, ii. 75                             son's, ii. 121, 125
   and Ulyssts, ii. 356                        and the crooning driver, ii. 153-4
Mozley, Mr., and Miss Savage, i. 355           at the Bp. of Peterborough's, ii. 179
" Mr. Heatherley's Holiday," and Jason         and Ulysses, ii. 197
      Smith, i. xii, xiii, ii. 403, 421       not the work of a lawyer, ii. 234
   painted and exhibited, i. 201              and Fuller Maitland, ii. 238
   hung on the line at the Royal Academy,      and the Devil, ii. 238
      i. 212                                   performed at Palermo, ii. 250
   and " A Psalm of Montreal," i. 220          chances of itt performance, ii. 356
   given to the Tate Gallery, ii. 421          and Sir C. V. Stanford, ii. 385
" Mrs. Waley's Sacrifice," ii. 294-5        Naseby, i. 2, 4, 1 1, ii. 6
Mullet, gray, ii. 377                       National Gallery, and Marco Marziale, ii.
Mullet, red, ii. 187                              3*
Munro, H. A. J., and Dr. Butler, ii. 266       and Mrs. French, ii. 258
Mure, Col., Language and Literaturt of         and Rembrandt's " Staalmeestert," ii.
      Ancient Greece, ii. 121 and note            296
Murillo, portrait by, at Modena, i. 394     National Gallery of British Art. Set Tate
Murray, John, and the Life of Dr. Butler,         Gallery
      ii. 227, 265, 436                     National Liberal Club, i. 280

5io                 NATIONAL — NOTE-BOOKS
National Observer, and Butler's Sonnets       New Testament, Miss Savage's, i. 221
      book, ii. 316                           New Zealand, Butler's letters home from,
National Portrait Gallery, portrait of               i. vi
      Charlea and Mary Lamb at, i. 115           Butler decides to emigrate to, i. 69
  Gogin's portrait of Butler at, ii. 247,        rivers, i. 80-81, 376
      428                                        rate of interest there, i. 169
National Reformer, i. 189, 262                   See also Canterbury Association and
National Review, ii. 370                            Settlement ; Christchurch ; " Meso
Nature, Ray Lankester in, on Hering, i.             potamia "
      *57. a59. *7>. 33*                      Newlands' Law, ii. 44
   review of Life and Habit by A. R.          Newsomc, Miss, at Miss Savage's funeral,
      Wallace in, i. 316                            i. 440
   and Romanes's review of Unconscious        Newtonian System, a screw loose in the,
      Memory, i. 349-50, 408                        t. 333-4
   and Krause's letter on Unconscious         Niagara, i. 212
      Memory, i. 349-50                       Nice, the Jones family and, i. 231, it 198,
   and Butler's reply to both, i. 349-50,            246, 282, 303, 326, 327, 335
      371, ii. 459.foil.                      Nicharchus, ii. 390
   and Romanes's reference to a non           Nicholts, Harry, and Ristori, i. 420-21
      existent article by Kingsley in, i. 404    in Sindbad the Sailor, i. 420, ii. 86
   and Ray Lankester's medusa, i. 411,        Nicoll, Henry J., i. v
                                              Nicolosi, ii. 145
   and413     t
         Stonehenge,  ii. 368                 Nsneteenth Century, and Tennyson, i. 330
Naucrates, ii. 390                               and the Bp. of Carlisle, i. 345
Nauplia, ii. 2x^fill.                         Nisbet, J. F., The Insanity ofGenius, ii. 3 1 5
Nausicaa, Butler and, ii. 3                         and note
   and the Odyssey, ii. 122, 133 fill., 147,  Nisus, ii. 17 1
       149, 208, 261, 304                     Nithsdale, i. 228
Nausithous, ii. 133                           Noble Vagabond, The, ii. 11;
Negri, Dionigi, Butler meets, i. 145          Nobleness, Butler's definition of, i. 329
   and Jones and the Pagets, i. 307           " Non nevica," ii. 194
   anxious that Butler should write about     Nonconformity, and the Worsleys, i. 16,
      Varallo, ii. 54                                 '7
   and the Crucifixion Chapel at Varallo,     Nonsense, good, i. 117
      ii. 164                                    verses, ii. 173-4
   sends honey for the Erewhon dinners,       Norma, ii. 155
      ii. 419, 420                            Norman, Philip, i. sla
   death of, ii. 425                          Normanby, Lord, ii. 443
Negri, Cavaliere Francesco, his // Santuario  Normandy, Butler's proposed tout in, i.
      di Crea, ii. 70, 110                          47-8
   his researches on Tabachctti, ii. 70, IOI, North London Railway, si. 151
       109-10, 137, 153, 195, 225, 249,       Norton, Prof. C. E., i. 209, ii. 366
      343-4, 348, 369-70, 384                 Norwich and the Taylors, i. 12. 17,
   his friendship with Butler, ii. 109-10            230                  ...
   his family history, ii. 11 3-14            "Not on sad Styjmn shore,' 1. xxvi, u.
   Butler to, on the Odyssey, ii. 137-8              294, 360, 361 (text), 367, 413
   at Camino, ii. 288-9                       Note on "The Tempest," Act III. Sc. i.
   and Butler in 1902, ii. 388-9                     ( 1 864), bibliography, i. xxi
   and H. F. Jones, ii. 410                      published, i. 102
Nelson, Lord, at Palermo, ii. 330             Note~Boois, The, ofSamuel Butler. Selection*
Neptune and Trapani, ii. 122, 134, 139,             arranged and edited by Henry Festing
      304                                           Jones (1912), H. F. Jones an, i.
Nettleship, and his picture, i. 143                  viii
Nevinson, Mr. H. W., at the fourth               bibliography, i. xxvii, xxviii, xxix
      Erewhon dinner, ii. 424                    *' Darwin among the Machines " repro
New Berners Club, i. 330                            duced in, i. 102
New Quarterly, Butler's notes in, i. xxvi,       " Lucubratio Ebria" reproduced in, i.
      ii. 177                                       *33
   Butler's sonnet on Miss Savage in, ii.        extract from letter to T. W. G. Butler
      350-51                                        reproduced in, i. 234
New Statesman, Bernard Shaw in, on               " The Righteous Man " reproduced in,
      Butler's style, ii. 76                        i. 238, 298

                             NOTE-BOOKS — NOTES                                            5"
Note-Booh, The, of Samuel Butler (contd.)—         Notes, by Samuel Butler (contd.)—
      a thing
   letter              One about
            signedor" two          Ethicshe" knows
                             who thinks      repro    Bishop Cartwright, i. 30
                                                     on blowing saliva bubbles, i. 31-2
       duced in, i. 296-7                            on his school-days at Shrewsbury, i. 33
   notereproduced
          on "The Super-Organic
                      in, i. 303       Kingdom "      Dr. Blomfield, i. 33-4
                                                     on getting a half-holiday at Shrewsbury,
   the Century Club note, i. 345                         i. 34
       printed for
   material                 second Italian book
                  in, i.a 375-6                      'HJwiJSt;, i. 34-5
                                                      on his Aunt Bather, i. 35-6
       quoted Dante,
   " Blake,                 382 and Tennyson "
                 from, i.Virgil,                      on Handel, i. 37
                                                      Kennedy's Grammars, i. 39-40
   theand,Return
              i. 383 of the Jews to Palestine         Pastor ignavus dormit supinus, i. 40
                                                     Walmialey, i. 49-50
   the Handel Sonnet and, i. 413                      Beethoven, i. 50
   Silvio and, i. 433                                 Handel, i. 50-51
   Butler's letter to E. J. Jones and, i. 43 3        Handel and Ernest Pontifez, i. 51
   Butler on Thackeray in, ii. 1 1                    on life in New Zealand, i. 87
   Butler on a Philharmonic concert in, ii.37        on crossing the Rangitata, i. 89
   Butler and the Bp. of Chichester in, ii.           Captain Simeon, i. 105-6
       40                                            on handsome, well-dressed men, i. 106
   and Butler's Rembrandt, ii. 48                     account of his friendship with Pauli,
   and the episode at Ypres, ii. 48                      i. 107-9, "3-«4> "69-70. 195. "•
   and Chiavenna, ii. 59                                 284/0//.
   and Style, ii. 76                                 " Family Prayers," i. 1 1 5
   and " Eating and Proselytising," ii. 77           Crabb Robinson, i. 126
   and ¦ Our Trivial Bodies," ii. 77                 on noises in his head, i. 1 30
   and Lord Shaftesbury's saying, ii. 106            The Russian Lady and Myself, i
   Mrs. Grosvenor and, ii. 120, 177                      132-3
   Reginald Worsley and, ii. 120                     Lionel Smythe, i. 137
   Charles Gogin and, ii. 1 20                        Dr. Parkes, i. 140
   andii. "Croesus
           136          and his Kitchen-maid,"        Rose the Model, i. 141
                                                      The Geography of Erewhon, i. 151
   and Butler's visit to the Bp. of Peter             John Morley, Sir George Trevelyan,
       borough, ii. 176                                  and Myself, i. 153-5
   and the Ntw Quarterly, ii. 177                    on Charles Darwin, i. 165
   and Cuthbert Creighton, ii. 180                    Fathers and Sons, i. 167
   and • In Memoriam H. R. F.," ii. 205              on Rev. E. A. Abbott, i. 182-3
   "a literary larder," ii. 217                      on Reviewing, i. 209
   and Homer's Hot and Cold Springs, ii.              Lord Houghton and Myself, i. 222
      222                                            on Miss Savage, i. 224-7, z37> z5°>
   and Desire and Power, ii. 228-9                    . *5*"4
   and " New Laid Eggs," ii. 236                     account of his friendship with H. F.
   " Analysis of the Sales of my Books "                 Jones, i. 231-2
      in, ii. 310-n                                   Resume of Life and Habit, i. 265
   "Searcher of Souls" in, ii. 334                    My Father's Woodsias, i. 279
   and Errtohon Revisited, ii. 353                    The National Liberal Club, i. 280-81
   and Gladstone's reputation as a financier,         Isabella, i. 284
      ii. 365-6                                      At Bletchingly, i. 290
Notei, by Samuel Butler— on James Butler,            The Super-Organic Kingdom, i. 303-4
      i.7l 8                                         The Berners Street Refuge, i. 3 1 1
   on i.Archdeacon
          11             Butler and Mary Butler,      MissFinancial
                                                      My               31 1
                                                             Ryder, L Position, i. 335-6, 353
   on his grandfather, Dr. Butler, i. 19              Unconscious Memory, i. 342-4
   My Father and Myself, i. 20, 21                   The Country of the People who are
   on his father driving in the ruts, i. 23             above Suspicion, i. 350-51
      i. 26 this Day 55 years ago (Rome),
   Myself                                            on Miss Buckley, i. 360-61
                                                     Blake, Dante, Virgil, and Tennyson, i.
   Miscellaneous Links with the Past, i.                 382
      27-9                                           on his knowledge of music, i. 384
  Claret and Port, i. 29                             At Mrs. Salter's, i. 396-7
  The      Infirmary i.Sermon
      Shrewsbury,          29-30 at St. Chad's,      Clodd, Grant Allen, and Myself, i. 417
                                                     At the Linnean Society, i. 433

5I2                            NOTES — "ON ENGLISH'
Nora, by Samuel Butler {mud.)—                                         Novalis, and Maeterlinck, ii. 276
    Dunkett'i Rat-Trap, L 436                                          Novara, i. 307
   Mead,
    Mill Savage'
   Ghosts,     ii.i. 44431 Funeral, i. 441                                 and Antonio Cagnoni, ii. 24, 25
                                                                           Bp. of, at Varallo, ii. 107, 108
                                                                           luncheon at, ii. 288
   Family Prayer* at Shrewsbury, ii. 5                                 Novello's, ii. 7
   Jonea and I at the Royal Institution,                               " Now let your Trumpets " {Ulysses}, ii
       ii. 5                                                                  *57. *5*
   Mr*. Bridge* and Mr*. Weldon, ii. 6                                Nana Amtologia. See Analogia Nuova
   Mi** Gavotte
   Narcissus,
   Our      Butler**        Carol, ii.ii.6-7
                     U. 7Album,                    7
                                                                      Ode on St. Cecilia's Day, i. 36
                                                                      Odyssrt, problem of, i. 183,11. 105, 106, III
   Two are better than One, ii. 8                                           fill., 160, 172, 207-8, 260 _/s//., 278-9
   Bo**, ii. 1 1                                                          Butler
                                                                          and            Way ofAll
                                                                                 Tit re-reads,                   connection
                                                                                                          in Flak,     ii. I, 2 with
   Ann
   00
   Grant
   Holman
   on hisand
  Steel      Allen,
             own
              washing,
                   my
                    Quill
                   Hunt literary
                          Clothe*,
                          ii.again,
                              Pent,
                               ii.
                               20-21 position,
                                    18      ii.
                                            ii. 28
                                           ii.    2118-19 ii. 17
                                                                         and
                                                                          date
                                                                      Odyssey,
                                                                          Butler's
                                                                              Ulysses,
                                                                                Erewhon
                                                                                Marettimo,
                                                                                Garnett,
                                                                                 of,
                                                                                  The,ii.Italian
                                                                                            ii.
                                                                                            rendered
                                                                                             163ii.
                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                 105pamphlet
                                                                                                      ii.Erevjhon
                                                                                                     278-9 188
                                                                                                           into English
                                                                                                                      about,
                                                                                                                       Revisited,
                                                                                                                              ii. 16]
                                                                                                                                   ii.
                                                                                                                            prosefir
  A
  Alfred
  My
  The
   Grant
  Twins,
       Winter
         Grandfather's
         Father
         Father's
           Shrewsbury
             and
             Allen's
              ii. 74  the
                     Journey,
                       and
                         Death,
                            Charles
                             Triad
                              Myself,
                                   Plate,
                                     ii.ii.on
                                Dinner,      Darvi'n,
                                            6044ii.G,
                                                   ii.
                                                    ii.45
                                                        ii.
                                                         39 59
                                                        50    ii. 28
                                                                             the use of these who cannot read tie
                                                                             original (1900), bibliography, i. xxv,
                                                                         andaxviJohn Worsley'* translation of the
                                                                                Butler'*
                                                                         andBible,      i. 16religious difficulties, i. 183
  Mrs.
  Dr.
  Edolo,
  Mr. Butler's
  Jesus    Rouetti
            Christ's
          Charles
             ii. 107Temper,
                         Darwin,
                           and
                           Ghost,        ii.
                                          ii.
                                           ii. 78
                                   " Almost,"    75 ii. 89
                                                74
                                                                         •eta aboutii.the
                                                                         progressing,
                                                                         finished,             ii. book,
                                                                                              116   108 ii. 105
                                                                         and
                                                                         revising,
                                                                         offeredMrs. toii.Grosvenor,
                                                                                            publishers,
                                                                                            121,158, 166-8,    ii. 118,
                                                                                                              ii.     247,251,256
                                                                                                                    125,  195, 196,
                                                                                                                          166-8
  My Lecture
  Alfred     at the Play,
             at            on "ii.The
                          Opera,       ii.115  115Humour of
  Don Homer,"
  ExorcismGiovanni          123
                           Sciallara,
                        Trapani,
                   at ii.                        143142
                                           ii. ii.                       published,
                                                                         samples,
                                                                         and 259-60,
                                                                                paragraphs,
                                                                               Robert   ii.ii.158,
                                                                                              Bridges,
                                                                                                335ii.
                                                                                            265       171,  ii.246
                                                                                                          240     324
 Jowett at Shrewsbury, ii. 152
  Waiting to be Hired (Castelvetrano), ii.                           Officer*, Butler on English, i. 375
      160                                                            Oger, M., ii. 343
 The Date of Segesta, ii. 163                                        "Oggi non piove," ii. 114
 Dr. Mandell Creighton and Mr. W. S.                                 " Oh no, we never mention her," i. 290
     Roclcstro, ii. 176                                              Old Bond Street Gallery, i. 163
 Amber, ii. 185                                                      Old Catholicism, i. 251
 Marettimo, ii. 186                                                  Old Compton Street, ii. 297
 Miss Jane Harrison, ii. 212                                            Butler
                                                                     OldButler
                                                                            Masters,
                                                                                   at
                                                                                   on,the, i.and ii.Ballard,
                                                                                                364   364         i. 139
 Writing in Homer, ii. 233
 The Four Frenchmen at Castelvetrano,
     ii. 269                                                         Old Mortality, ii. 360-61
 Collesano, ii. 270                                                  "Old Style," i. 29
 Garnett and The Authoress, ii. 278                                  Oliphant, Mrs., i. 173, 175
 Myself and Dr. Furnivall, ii. 310                                   Olives versus grass, i. 130
 Conveyancing and the Arts, ii. 332                                  Ollivier, Mr, ii. 362
 Alfred, ii. 345                                                     Omar Khayyam, M. Fernand Henry's
 Errwhon Revisited, ii. 353-4                                               translation of the Rubaiyat of, ii. 322,
 Hanky's Sermon, ii. 354                                                    3*7, 333-4. 335
Coffee at Wilderhope, ii. 357                                        " On English Composition and Other
Langar, ii. 416                                                             Matters" (1858), bibliography, i. xxi
Mr. Gregory at Langar, ii. 416                                          published in Tie Eagle, i. 55-6
Bees, ii. 417                                                           and Butler's style, ii. 76, 235-6

                                     "ON MEMORY" — PARMA                                                                       513
  44 On Memory it a Key to the Phenomena                                     ii. 430a good rollicking broad Church,
                                                                       Paganism,
   " On of        Trapanesei.Origin
          theHeredity,"                    379-80  of the Odyssey "
                                                                       Page,i.T.xxvE., " Erewhon after thirty years,"
     Onea(1893),
  "Once       who thinks
             ffui,               126 he
                           i.i. xxiv,          knowt a thing or
                                          ii. 262
                                                                          at
                                                                          Butler's
                                                                      Paget, Heatherley's,
                                                                              Arona,
                                                                             the   seventh
                                                                                 Henryletters
                                                                                          Varallo,
                                                                                           Marriott,
                                                                                                 Erewhon
                                                                                                  toi. him,
                                                                                                         andi. i.xii
                                                                                                        134       dinner,
                                                                                                                   328-9, ii.
                                                                                                                 Fobello,    i. 430
                                                                                                                           332-4 307
         two about Ethics " (Butler in the
         Examiner correspondence, "A Clergy
         man's Doubts "), i. 296 fill.
 Orange
 Oranges,
  Onions,
  Opinions,
  Ophrynium,
 Oppenheims,   blossom,
                ii.ati.248
                        Athens,
                         181
                          ii.
                            i. 383
                                 217     ii. 211, 213
                                    ii. 198                           Paget, Sir James, i. 130
                                                                      Paget, Sidney, i. 329, 332
                                                                      Paget's Book, ii. 265/1//.
                                                                      Pagoto, Peppino, ii. 140, 243, 271, 327,
                                                                             410
                                                                      Paine, Sir Thomas, and H. F. Jones, i.
 "Origine,
 Ordini,
 Organpacking,
 Oriana,       Andrea,
               ii. 323
             building, L',
                       ii. 301   Siciliana
                                       128 23 dell' Odissea"
                                 i.i. 22,                                and230,    ii. 46i. 231
                                                                                Butler,
                                                                      Paine and Layton, i. 230
                                                                      Palermo, Butler and the Custode in the
                                                                         mosaics,
                                                                         and
                                                                         his
                                                                         Butler
                                                                         Museum
                                                                             Palazzo
                                                                              illness
                                                                                Pepino
                                                                                   at,ii.
                                                                                        at,
                                                                                         in
                                                                                       at,Reale
                                                                                           303
                                                                                           Pagoto,
                                                                                            ii.1901,
                                                                                             in 156, at, ii.
                                                                                                    1902, ii.
                                                                                                           330
                                                                                                          ii. 342
                                                                                                              ii.
                                                                                                              243
                                                                                                               15-16
                                                                                                                   ^qi foil.
 Orpheus
 Orsi,
 Oropa,
 Orta,    Dr.
         (1893),
          i. ii.307
                 and
                   Paolo,    88,
                               xxiv
                    87,i.Eurydice,      243,ii.270
                                   ii.100        364
 Orthodoxy against Unorthodoxy, i. 417                                Palestine, and prize books, i. 356
 Otborn, H. F., From the Greeks to Darwin,                               getting the Jews back to, i. 383, ii. 129
 Othello,
        i. 319
 Ospedale     ii.Lo  324 Truglio (Calatafimi), ii. 329                Palestrina, and Sir George Macfarren, ii.
                                                                             164
                                                                      Paley, Rev. Edmund, i. 9
 Overton,
 "Our      Emigrant
           Tour" Edward      {Eagle),
                                 " {The
                                      (Eagle),  56i. of
                                            i.Way         73 Flesh),
                                                     71,All           Paley, Mrs. Edmund, i. 23, ii. 471
                                                                     Paley, Frederick Apthorp, i. 9, ii. 471
                                                                         and
                                                                         the Evidences,
                                                                     Paley,    Archdeacon
                                                                               William       Carmalt,
                                                                                                ii. William,
                                                                                                     439, 471 i. 228i. 9
        and Butler, i. 20, 21, 392, ii. 9
 Owen       Alcthea,
     and family            ( Thei. 310,
                                      Fair ii.   2
                                              Haven),    i. 20, 24,
                                                                     Pall Mall Cassette, and Erewhon, ii. 375
         192-3                                                           in the Darwin quarrel, ii. 450 foil.
 Owen, John Pickard (The Fair Haven%                                 Palmyra, and prize books, i. 356
        and Butler, i. xi, ljjfoll.                                  Panama, i. 109
     and the chickens, i. 272                                        Panky, ii. 355-6
     and Goodge Street, i. 312                                       Pantellaria, spelling, i. xi
     and the
 Owen,        Williampriest atBickersteth
                                       Meien, ii. 236   '(The Fair       Butler
                                                                        and    theat,
                                                                                    Odyssey,
                                                                                        ii. 157,ii. 159 139, 234, 235, 262
 Oxford
 Owls,Haven),
           i. and
               218-20  Cambridge
                          i. 176 foil.attitude, Butler on            Pantheism, Butler's modest, ii. 303
                                                                     Panther, ii. 270
                                                                     Pants and trousers, i. 2 ¦ 9
"Oxford
    Oxoniensis
        the,men,        "i. 107
                 ii. 149,       (pseudonym
                                    172               adopted    by  Paolino at Monte Oliveto, ii. 86-7
                                                                     Paolo, Don (Calatafimi), ii. 328, 410
                                                                     Pafh Martin (Cagnoni), ii. 25
        Butler in the Examiner correspond                            Parable of the Good Samaritan, i. 401
        ence, "A Clergyman's Doubts"), i.                            Paracca, " Massacre of the Innocents "
        296/0//.                                                            chapel by, ii. 63
                                                                     Paradise Lost, ii. 364
Paceco, ii. 300                                                      Parents, rich but dishonest, i. viii
Padua, Arena Chapel, i. 394                                          Parfitt, Owen, ii. 252, 390
    Titian fresco in the Scuola di San                               Parkes, Dr., i. 140
        Antonio, ii. 32                                              Parkinson, S. (St. John's College, Cam
    Giotto frescoes, ii. 303                                                bridge), i. 45
Paestum, ii. 146, 243, 246                                           Parma, Butler there on his first visit to
    and the Schmitts, ii. 291-2, 327                                    Butler
                                                                        and Italy,
                                                                              on on i. pictures
                                                                                   the  25            at, i. 394-5
                                                                                          ruined theatre,           i. 395
Pagani's, Erewhon dinners at, ii. 417,
       419, 420, 424, 428, 429
         VOL. II                                                                                                    7 L

 5H                     PARMA — PIETRA-SANTA
 Parma, Duchessa di, and Pictro di Stefanis,    Penelope and King Menclaus, Butler's
        ii. no                                        "aggravating matter" about, ii. 136
 Parnassus, ii. 216                             Pennant, P. See Pearson, P. P.
 Parr, Samuel, Preface to Bellenden, i. z       Pens, Butler on, ii. 28
    mentioned, i. 2, 12, 17, 230                Pepoli, Conte Agostino Sieri, Butler meets,
    quoted aa to the Church and the Uni               ii. 141
        versities, ii. 172                         and the Ruccaizu dei Corvi, ii. 157
 Parrots and tea, i. 421                           sends Butler water, ii. 159
 Pauina, i. 270                                    Butler stays with, for " I Personaggi,"
 Paat selves, i. 213, 224                             ii. 192
 Pasteur, ii. 190                                  his death, ii. 300
 Patience, Butler and, i. 51, ii. 257              and a Garibaldi flag, it 300
    Miss Savage and, i. 338                        and the MS. of Tie Authoress, ii. 300
    Miss Savage on cheating at, i. 344             and a Scarlatti MS., ii. 300-301
 Patraa, ii. 211, 216                           Pericles, ii. 37 1 -2
 Pa/mm Apouolicorum Optra, i. 78                Perring, Rev. Sir P., i. 60
 Patten, Miss, ii. 399, 400                     " Personaggi, I," Butler and, ii. 192-3
 Patti, Giacalone, ii. 292, 299-300                Jonea and, ii. 347, 348
 Pattisson, J., i. 126                          Perugia, i. 329, ii. 291
 Paul, St., 1. 143                              Pesaro, a Bellini at, i. 394, ii. 342
    a favourite with the Positivists, i. 197       and Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Strong, ii.
    and Grace, i. 239-40                              390
    and 1 Cor. iiii., i. 240, 447, ii. 418      Pessimism, i. 273
 Pauli, Charles Paine, Butler's account of      Pestaloui, G., Samuel Butler der ySngere,
       hit friendship with, i. vi, 107-9,             i. xxviii
        1 13-14, 169-70, 195, ii. 1, 284 fill.  Peter Martyr, St., pictures representing
    Butler and, in New Zealand, i. 106 fill.         scenes from the life of, at Parma, i.
    and Errwhon, i. 149, 168                          394-5
    and Hoare's companies, i. 196               Peter Bell, and the primrose with a yellow
    his business capacity, i. 222                    brim, i. 355, 357, 368, ii. 253
    his relations with Butler after the         Pctrarchian sonnet form, ii. 368
       •mashing of the companies, i. 222-3,     Petrels, i. 75, 240
       *45. *49. 3«3-»5. 353                    Petrie, W. M. Flinders, ii. 368
    Lift and Habit dedicated to, i. 261         Phaeacians, ii. 122, 134, 163, 188
    a man of the world, i. 312                  Pkaedo, ii. 379
   hit kindness to animals, i. 312-13           Phantasia, ii. 390
    Towneley in Tkt Way of All Flesh            Phelps, William Lyon, i. xziz
       drawn from, ii. 8                       •Philharmonic Concert (Beethoven), ii.
    his relations with Butler after Canon            37-8
       Butler's death, ii. 46                   Philip van Artevelde, ii. 35
   lunched with Butler three days a week,       Phillimore Gardens, ii. 370
       ii. 258, 283                             Phillips, William, Butler's letter to, on
   and Butler's books, ii. 283                        Dr. Butler, ii. 71-2
   last illness and death, ii. 283                 and Paget's Book, ii. 265 fill.
   funeral, ii. 284-5                           Phillipson, Major R. B., i. 14, ii. 399
   disclosures with regard to, ii. 284-6        Phillipson, Mrs. R. B. (Elizabeth Butler),
   and Erewhon Revisited, ii. 347                    i. 14, ii. 400
Pauli, Mrs. i. 102, 106                         Philoetius, ii. 149
Pawnbrokers, i. 278                             Phocaeans, ii. 261
Peaches, i. 282                                Phoenicians, ii. 134, 272
Pears, i. 215                                  P/iroa, ii. 391
Pearson, P. P., i. 52                          Piano, Butler's, at Clifford's Inn, i. lir,
Pearson, Miss, her success as a nurse, i.            "5
       250                                        Butler's first lessons on the, i. 27
Peckham, Butler's houses at, ii. 345,                87, 104in New Zealand, i. 85, 86,
                                                  Butler's,
       354-5. 373. 376. 385
Pecksniff of Science, ii. 75                      keys of a, and the human ear, i. 254-5
Peele's, ii. 345                                  mixture of the black and white notes
Pelagius, i. 65                                      in a, ii. 471
Pella, i. 307                                  Piebald horse, i. 217
Pendennis, ii. n                               Piemonte, ii. 300
Penelope, a flirt, ii. 1 19                    Pietra-Santa, Angile Marie, ii. 165

                       PIG-HUNTING — PRINCE                                              515
Pig-hunting, i. 87                            Pontifez, Ernest (contd.)—
Pig-tty, i. 104                                  and Mrs. MacCarthy, ii. 99
Pigou, Dean, and Ereiukon, ii. 330-31,           and Miss Maitland, ii. 363
      354                                        tezt in his bedroom, ii. 422
Pilgrim't Progress, i. 388                    Pontifez, George, and Dr. Butler, I. 115,
           note at Mesopotamia, ii. 104
PinuaandInsignis,                                    ii. 73
                                                 his stomach, ii. 3
Pio, and the Bp. of Novara'i mitre, ii.       Pontifez, John, ii. 416
      10S                                     Pontificating, i. 206
Piora, i. 239-40                              Poodle ("a truly hunting dog"), i. 283
Pirates of Penzance, i. 335                   Pope, Alexander, Arbuthnot to, on Handel,
Pisa, ii. 303, 341                                  ii. 221
Pitt, Rt. Hon. William, ii. 313                  his Odjuey, ii. 231, 282
Piua II., Pope, ii. 116                       Popular Science Review, in the Darwin
Pizzetta (photographer at Varallo), ii. iz          quarrel, ii. 450/0//.
Platamonc family, ii. 141                     Porlezza, ii. 247
Platania, Prof. Giovanni, ii. 145-6, 181,     Porson, Richard, i. 28
      410                                     Port, i. 29
          one of thei. 364
Plato,Christendom,        Seven Humbugs of    Porter of Havre (Cagnoni), ii. 25
                                              Portfolio, The, ii. 344
   Butler and " that damned Republic," i.     Porthos and Pietro, ii. 1 12
      395                                     Portland, Duke of, as a landlord, i. 356
   and Maeterlinck, ii. 276                   Portland Place, i. 348
   Butler on, ii. 276                         Positivists, Miss Savage on the, i. 197-8
   and immortality, ii. 379                   Postulates, definition of, i. 383
Playfair, Dr. Lyon, i. 43                     Potato, Butler on the, i. 444
Plotinus, and Maeterlinck, ii. 276            Potter, F. H., Butler buys sketches by, ii.
Plot?, i. 175, 185                                  48
Plumer, Jane (wife of Joseph Whately).        Powell, Sir Douglas, ii. 366
      See Whately, Mra. Joseph                Povjcr of Sound, The, i. 232
"Poet, pike-fisher, farmer, lakist . . .,"    Powers, Mr., ii. 261
      ii. 254                                 Powis, Lady, i. 13
Poetry, and T. W. G. Butler, i. 135           Poyntz, Mr., and the collapse of the spire
   Jesus Christ on the respective merits of         of St. Mary's Church, Shrewsbury, ii.
      prose and, ii. 26                             .181
   brevity the soul of all agreeable, ii. 254 Pozzo della Cisterna, Principe e Princi*
Poggio Reale, ii. 193                               peasa dal, ii. 113
Politl at Siracusa, ii. 156                   Prato, i. 251
Polynesian, i. 214                            Prayer Book, "Is it cut?" ii. 177
Polynesians, ii. 443                             Butler's, ii. 362, 363
Polyphemus, and Handel, i. 146-7              Prayers, left off, i. 71
   and the Odyssey theory, ii. 145, 387          Miss Savage's story about, i. 163,
Pompeii, ii. 242-3                                  193
Pont Saint Martin, ii. 57                     Precession of the Equinoxes, ii. 234
Ponte della Sclva, ii. 59                     Preda, Sig. Pietro, and Butler, ii. 84
Ponte Grande, i. 307                          Preu, The (N.Z.), Butler's contribution!
Pontifex.es, the (Tie Way of All Flesh), i.         to, i. xii, zzi, zzii, zzvii, 99-101, 125,
      19-25, 203, 205, 206, 208, 212, 275,          233
      278, 398-9                                 obituary of Butler in, i. zzv
Pontifez, Alethea, and Miss Savage, i.           Butler and, ii. 36 1 foil.
      ziv, 208, 232, 247, 310, 401, ii. 2        and Ererwhon Revisited, ii. 377, 381-2,
   eyes, i. 208                                     386
   epitaph, i. 447-8                             account of the seventh Erewhon dinner
   and the Christening Bible, ii. 14                in, ii. 429
Pontifez, Charlotte, drawn from Butler's                those upon,
                                              Prey,preyed               63 those who are
                                                                who, i. and
      sisters, ii. 5, 392, 409
Pontifez, Ernest, and his father, i. 19-20    Pricking out a part, ii. 92
   and crossing, i. 392                       Priggishness, i. 216, 398
   priggish, i. 398                           Primrose, Olivia, proposed novel concern
   character, ii. 1, 2                              ing, i. 276
   pre-natal experiences, ii. 3               Primrose Hill, i. 172
   drawn from Butler, ii. 9/.//.              Prince (dog), i. 198
        VOL. II                                                                 2 L2

5i6                         PRINCE — REEVES
Prince Imperial, death of the, and Captain    Quoting from memoiy, "Resist God," L
      Carey, i. 308-10                               183
" Principle, The, Underlying the Sub             "Jesus ! with all thy faults," i. 183
      division of the Organic World into         "An honest God," i. 212
      Animal and Vegetable," ii. 41, 47          "There lives more doubt," i. 358, ii.
* Private and Confidential," i. 217                  •3. 83
Prize books, Miss Savage on, i. 356              a dangerous habit, i. 374
Promontogno, i. 421, ii. 372, 377, 378           " God bless you, merry gentleman," i.
Prose or Poetry ? ii. 26                            402
Prothero, Mr. G. W., and The Authoress,          "'Til better to have loved and lost,"
      ii. 274                                       ii. 13
Providence, and James Butler, i. 7, 8            " How gently do they that have riches,"
   and Dr. Butler, i. 10, 387                       ii. 45
   and S. Butler, i. 72, 151
   and Miss Savage, i. 268, 274, 379          Radburn, Ann (first wife of William
   and the Archbishop of York, i. 306               Butler, II.). See Butler, Mra.
   and Shelley, i. 387                              William, II.
Prussian, i. 212                              Radley, i. 230
Pryer {The Way ofAll Flesh), ii. II           Rafl'aelle, an un-aelf-conscious artist, i. 232
" Psalm, A, of Montreal," bibliography, i,       one of the Seven Humbugs of Christen
      xxii                                          dom, i. 364
   text of, i. 218                               in " Ramblings in Cheapside," ii. 10 1
   Miss Savage on, i. 220                        at the Old Masters, ii. 364
   in The Spectator, i. 276-7                    Butler and, ii. 381
   in Selectionsfrom Previous Worhs, i. 408,  Raikcs, H. C, i. 153
      ii. 124                                 Railways, beginnings of, Shrewsbury, i. 33
Psalms, Butler and the, i. 433                   New Zealand, ii. 362
Puglisi Pico, Mario, ii. 146                  Raisin wine, ii. 4
   and Butler's articles in the Rasscgna, ii. Rakaia, i. 79, 84, 151, ii. 362, 363
       156, 181, 183                          Raleigh, Sir Walter, i. 287
   and the earthquakes, ii. 182               "Ramblings in Cheapside" (Unjverud
   and Gladstone, ii. 225                           Review), and Dante, i. 382
   and Jones, ii. 243                            and parrots, i. 421
   at Taormina, ii. 327, 342                     published, ii. 1 00-101
Pulborough, Butler at (1881), i. 361             and Socrates, ii. 1 57
Punch aux quatres fleuves, i. 18              Ramezzana, ii. 113
Punctuality, i. 208                           Ramolino, Laetitia, ii. 165
Purdoe (cat), i. 173-4, 176, 379              Rams, Butler on, i. 92-3
Purfleet, ii. 13                              Rangitata, i. 81, 89, 151, ii. 362, 363
Pusley (C. D. Warner), Miss Savage on, i.     Rao, Leonardo (sordo-muto), ii. 143
      395-6                                   Rassegna della Letteratura Siciliana, Butler's
   Butler on, i. 396                                articles in, ii. 156, 181, 183
Putney, i. 228, 229                           Rathbone Place, ii. 310
Pyramids, i. 203-4                            Rats, psychology of, i. 436
                                              Rattray, R. F., "The Philosophy of
Quarterly Review, article on Butler in              Samuel Butler," i. xxviii
      the, i. xxviii                          Ravenna, ii. 303-4
Quetelet, L. A. J., i. 293                    Ravizza, Avvocato Giuseppe, ii. 114
Quickly, Mrs., alia Siciliana, ii. 328        Reading, Butler and, ii. 228
Quiller-Couch, A. T., and Errwhon Re             the lost art of, ii. 314, 316
      visited, ii. 356-7                      Reason, i. 176, 180
Quilter, Harry, article on Butler in What's   Reasoner, The, Butler's papers in, i. 117,
      What, i. xxv                                  >33. *33
   and Butler's articles in The Universal     Redemption, Marquis and the, ii. 1 29
      Review, ii. 65-6, 135                   Redfarn Ic Banham, i. 107
"Quis desiderio . . .?" (Universal Re         Redgrave, S., i. 197
      view), ii. 66                           Redistribution Bill, i. 434
Sluisanti, ii. 391                            Redway, George, ii. 293
"Quite" friendly, ii. 280                     Reeve, Henry, i. 17, 230
Sim VadisT obituary of Butler in, i.          Reeves, Sims, i. 249
      vxv                                     Reeves, W. Pember, his book on New
   Butler to the Editor of, ii. 394                 Zealand, ii. 169-70

                                  REEVES — ROMANES                                                             517
Reeve*, W. Pember (contd.)—                                Rigi-Scheidegg,
                                                           Rimini,     ii. 343 ii. 331
    hii correspondence with H. F. Jones,
       ii. 170
    Butler    and, ii. 362                                 Ristori, and Harry Nicholli, i. 420-1, ii.
                                                                  37*
Reggio, ii. 239, 242, 243                                  Rizzetti, Cavaliere Angclo, translates Ex
Reid, Dr., i. 218                                                 Voto into Italian, i. xxiv, ii. 67
Reinheimer, Hermann, i. xxiz                               Rob Roy, i. 229, ii. 347
Reithron, ii. 157                                          Roberts, Arthur, Butler and, it. 195-6
Rejected Addressee ii. 366-7                               Robertson, H. R., i. xii
Rcmacle, M., and lean dc Wespin, ii. 66                          School
                                                              fellow        of Art, ofi. 1 Butler's
                                                                       -student            14            at Cary's
    exhibition
    Butler's supposed,
Rembrandt,        andat Thomas
                          Amsterdam
                             ii. 48,Ballard,   i. 139 ii.
                                       402(1898),
                                                              his account of Thomas Ballard, i. 138-9
                                                                     the of
                                                              hisinlist       pictures
                                                                           Royal          by Butler
                                                                                   Academy,         i. 236exhibited
       295-6
Renan, i. 202                                                 at the Erewhon dinners, ii. 419, 420
Rendall, Vernon, article on Butler in The                  Robinson, Henry Crabb, L 126
         "The
          Butler's
            NotAtkenaeum,
   andAthenaeum,       sad
                        i. xxv
                   on letterStygian
                               to
                                ii. 367   note
                                          Spectator
                                    Tkeshore,"        on
                                                 ii. 376   Robinson, Miss Mary, ii. 293
                                                           Robinson Crusoe, ii. 240
                                                           Rocca Borromeo, i. 145
                                                           Rocco, San, at Fusio, ii. 55
       Erewkon, ii. 384                                   Rock, Tke, Miss Savage and, i. 196
   and the        ii. 397 book, ii. 385
          flats,Sonnets                                       on Tke Fair Haven, i. 200, 368
                                                             and " Rome and Pantheism," i. 373
Renkoi, ii. 217                                           "Rock of Ages," i. 221
Republic, Plato's, i. 395                                 Rockstro, William Smith, gives Butler
Rese, La. See La Rese                                            and Jones lessons in counterpoint, ii.
"Resist God . . .," i. 183                                       gofill^ 104-5, '97
Reticence, overdoing, ii. 266-7                              anecdotes of, ii. 92-3
       306-7,and
Reviewers         316 Reviewed, i. 209, ii. 28,              and Mrs. R. C. Grosvenor, ii. 124
                                                             his fall from an omnibus, ii. 126
Reville, Albert, i. 192                                              127 to Butler on a Key to Homer,
                                                             hisii.letter
Revue des Deux Mondei, i. 192
Reyms of Overstrand, ii. 48                                  his Canons, ii. 127-8
Reyner, G. F. (St. John's College, Camb.),                   and the crooning driver, ii. 154
       '¦45                                                  and Butler's ransom, ii. 155
       5th Duke
Reynolds,             of Rutland,
                Sir Joshua,           i. 28-9 of the
                                his portrait                 robbed of his watch, ii. 167
                                                             and Dr. Mandell Creighton, ii. 176-7
       Egrcmont
   Butler's           by, i. of
                 portrait    403,the     Countess of
                                    ii. 48                   his death, ii. 2z8j
                                                             as a teacher, ii. lit fill,
Rhenish of 1611, i. 29                                       Butler's photograph of, ii. 238
Richards, Grant, and Erewkon Revisited, i.                Rodelinda (Handel), i. 36
       "3. '»¦ 353                                        Rogers (Canon Butler's servant), ii. 44
   and Bernard Shaw, ii. 340                              Rogers, Samuel, i. 126
   his letter to H. F. Jones on Butler, ii.               Rolleston, William, i. 7S-9, ii. 334-5
       340-41                                             " Roma o Morte ! " ii. 162, 328
   and Ex Voto (new edition), ii. 377, 384,               Roman Catholic Church, and Alps and
      385                                                       Sanctuaries, i. 364
Richardson, Dr. W. B., i. 316                                Butler and, i. 407
Ricketts, Charles, ii. 303                                Roman Emperor, i. 71
Rickmansworth, ii. 177                                    Romanes, George John, reviews Unconscious
Ridgeway, Prof. W., ii. 233                                     Memory, i. 349-50, 408, ii. 459 fill.
Rigby, Henrietta (Butler's brother's wife).                     i. 403Evolution in Animals published,
                                                             Mental
      See Butler, Mrs. Thomas, II.
Right and Wrong, i. 236-7, ii. 1-2, 16,                      Butler and his reference to Kingsley, i.
       351-2                                                    4°4i 405. 4°«
"Righteous
      i. 238, Man,
                 298 The," and Tht Examiner,                 adopts the Life and Habit theory with
                                                             Butler's
                                                             the  executor
                                                                out      " Remarks,"
                                                                              of Darwin
                                                                      acknowledgement,     i. 405,
                                                                                              in i.the 408,
                                                                                                         matter
                                                                                                      405,   ii. 42
                                                                                                            408-9 of
  text, i. 238-9
   and the Darwin quarrel, i. 324
  and this Memoir, ii. 436                                         Atkenaeum
                                                             Theevolution,        on his Mental Evolution
                                                                               i. 408-9
Righteousness, Butler on, ii. 172
Rigi, Alfred on the, ii. 210                                    in Animals, i. 409

518                   ROMANES — ST. MORITZ
Romanes, George John (contd.)—              Royal Academy Soiree, i. 163
  •ubsequent correspondence, 1. 409, 4 1 2, Royal Institution, ii. 5
     ii. 2o and note                        Royal Society of Musicians, i. 229
  at the Linnean Society, i. 433, 434, 435  Ruby offered in exchange for a daughter,
  and Harblot, ii. 23                             i. 6
  and Luck or Cuming T ii. 34, 41, 4a       Ruccazzu dei Corvi, ii. 157, 192
Romano, Canonico, ii. 301                   Ruddock, Mrs. Eleanor (nie Ballantine,
Romano, Prof., ii. 144                             second wife of Rev. W. Carmalt),
Romans, Epistle to the, ii. 14-16                 i. 229
Rome, Dr. Butler at, i. 10                  Ruddock, Rev. Joshua, i. 229
   Butler's first visit to, i. 25, 26       Rugby, i. 8, ii. 252
" Rome and Pantheism," i, 372               Ruskin, John, his position and Butler's
Rooks, i. 244                                     contrasted, ii. 50
Rosa, Carl, and The Porter ofHavre at the    Russell, N.Z., i. 129
      Lyceum, ii. 25                        Russell, E. S., Form and Function, i.
Rose (the model) and his torso, i. 141-a          xxix
Rosherville Gardens, i. 305                  Russell, Rev. Henry, on Latin disserta
Rosigns no, ii. 195                               tions in the chapel of St. John's
Roskill, Mr. John, and Frederic Harrison,          College, Cambridge, i. 46
      ii. 371                                Russian Lady, the, i. 132-3
Rosmini, Butler's review of, i. 209          Rutland, John Henry, 5th Duke of, i.
Rosminian Fathers, Butler and the, i. 183,         28-9
      3*7. 37*                               Rydal, ii. 253-4
   "flirting hard," i. 369                   Ryder, Miss, Miss Savage on, i. 311
   Butler dines with them in Ely Place, i.   Rye, ii. 217
      373-4                                  Rye Lane, ii. 355
   bis relations with, 1. 374
   and a passage in the Vulgate, i. 374      Saas Fie, Butler visits the chapels at, ii.
   in connection with Mivart, i. 407
Ross, and the Tristram Shandy marriage, i.      and the MacCarthys, ii. 99
       136-7, ii. 214                           and George Wherry, ii. 99-100
Ross, Miss, i. 136, ii. 214, 215                and Tabachetti, ii. 249*5°
Ross, Mrs. Janet, her books quoted, i. 17    Sabbaglione, ii. 108
      note, 27                               Sacro Monte. See Varese.
Rossetti, Dante Gabriel, Butler's opinion    Sadler, Thomas, and Alfred's teeth, ii.
      of, i. 154, 164                              299
   Butler on his pictures, i. 383, 438          portrait of Butler, 11. 408-9
Rossetti, Mr. and Mrs. William, Butler       Saffron Hill organ grinders, ii. 273
      on an At Home at their house, i.      Sagacity and Morality of Plana (J. E.
      437-8                                        Taylor), i. 404
   Mrs. Rossetti and " Almost," ii. 89-90    Sagno, i. 250
Rossini, and Wagner, ii. 276                Saigon, ii. 248
Rossura Porch, i. 282, 284-5, 300            St. Albans, ii. 304-5
Rothschild, Leopold, i. 349                 St. Clement Danes, and the peripatetic cat,
Rothschilds, the, i. 383                           i. 31
Rottingdean, i. 230                             and Butler's "Advertisement" picture,
Rough borough (The Way of All Fleth),             i. 248
      '• 3*. 49. »• *55                     Se. James's Ga<ulte, on Alft and Sanctu
Rousseau, John James, i. 262                      aries i. 366
Royal Academy, Butler's pictures and the,       Butler's letter in, in his controversy
      i, '44. "47i '5°. '9°. *36 (us0. *74.        with Darwin, i. 372, ii. 456 foil.
      276, 384                              St. James's Hall, Monday Popular Con
  his pictures sold from, i. 195                   certs at, i. 231
   Miss Savage and, i. 198, 207             St. John's Wood, Miss Savage lost in, i.
  "Mr. Heatherle/s Holiday" at, i.                 268
      201, 212                                  Nursing Home in, ii. 396, 408
  " Don Quixote," i. 235                    St. Lawrence river, i. 213, 215
  "Advertisement" picture rejected, i. 248  St. Luke's Church, Chelsea, i. 140, 142
  rejections (1877), i. 249                 St. Martin's Street, W.C., ii. 340
  and Paget, Gotch, and Gogin, i. 332       St. Mary's Hospital, Miss Savage's death
Royal Academy Catalogue, poetry in the,           'n, i. 439
     U 135. J*«i 3"                         St. Moritz, Butler and Jones at, i. 419

                   ST. MORITZ — SAVAGE (MISS)                                                    519
St. Moritz (contd.)—                                   Giovanni
                                                       Giuliano,
                                                       Pantaleo,
                                                 San Marino,
                                                         Pietro (Susa),
                                                                  ii.Monte.
                                                                     di
                                                                     ii.343
                                                                         Andorno,
                                                                          139,Butler
                                                                                 See ii.
                                                                                144   at,87i. (Mount)
                                                                                      Eryx     375, ii.
       at, i. 419-20
   Browning      and Mrs. Bloomfield Moore
   Ristori at, i. 420
St. Pancras Church (Euston Road), ii. 5;
St. Paul's Cathedral, Reginald Worslcy                  *7*
      and, i. 141                                San Salvatore, ii. 247
   Thanksgiving Service in (1872), ii. 355       Sargeant, Mr. John, ii. 268
St. Thomas Island, i. no                         Sarmatian, i. 221
Sainte-Bcuve, i. 202                             Sartor Retartus, Butler and, i. 373
Saints, knowing the names of, i. 262-3,          Sass, H., i. 114
      ii. 14                                     Sassoferrato, i. 115
   advantage of carrying, ii. 55                 Saturday Review, and New Zealand
Sale, Prof. G. S., i. xii                               colonists, i. 126
   review of The Way of All Fleth, i. xxvi          on Life and Habit, i. 269, 271
            98, 99,life
   and78,Butler's    100,
                        in 103,
                           New ii.
                                Zealand,  i. 22,
                                   104 note         and the wrath to come, i. 333
                                                    notice in, on Butler generally, i. 369
   at the first Erewhon dinner, ii. 419             and the Sonnets book, ii. 316
Sale-Vache-Armee, ii. 128                        Saturn, i. 388, ii. 133
Salerno, ii. 243, 246, 291, 327                  Sausages, on grinding them to the Lord, i.
Salinas, Commendatore, ii. 144, 330                     142
Salisbury, Lord, and verifying references,       Savage, Miss Eliza Mary Ann, Butler's
      ii. 13                                           correspondence with, arranged and
   address to the British Association, ii.             edited by himself, i. vi, xiii, 143, 194,
       190-91                                           205, 440 fillip ii. 22, 349 foil., 364,
Saliva bubbles, i. 32                                   366, 368, 371
Salt, Mr., and the Humanitarian League,             the letters, i. 143 foil., ii. 423
      "• 373                                        Miss Savage on her letters being kept,
   pamphlet on Animals' Rights, ii. 374                i. 253, 262, 272
Salter, Francis Septimus, i. 397                    Butler on her letters, i. 440 foil., ii.
   and Ray Lankester, i. 411                             106
   Butler's letter to, about Ray Lankester's        Butler's relations with, i. xiii, 224-7,
      treatment of himself, i. 412-13                   *37. »5*"4, 337. 377. 37*. 4>8. 44°
   and Butler's remarks on Alfred Tylor's              foll„ ii. J $0 foil.
       paper, i. 434                                Butler's sonnets on, i. 446, ii. 350
Salter, Mrs. (formerly Miss Fanny Hay               particulars of her life, i. 142
      cock), i. 396-7                               Butler meets her at Hcatherley's, i. 142,
Salter, W. H., Essays on T100 Moderns, i.               35»
      zxvii                                                144
                                                    all i.Butler's   literary work submitted to,
Salvation Army, Byle's eating-house and
      the, ii. 69                                   her review of Ercwhen, i. 158. ii. 439
   Madame and the, ii. 128                            foil.
Salve, St., ii. 251                                 urges Butler to write a novel, i. 159-60,
Sambucco, Valle di, i. 284                              162, 173, 190-91
Sammichele, haunts Butler, i. 333, 335              her deceitfulness about The Fair Haven,
   thei. Fathers
          364     of, and Alps and Sanctuaries,        i. 164, 1 90 foil.
                                                    her greatest faults, i. 165
   and the Rosminian Fathers in Ely                 lame, i. 172
      Place, i. 374                                 her clubs, i. 174, 192, 205, 220, 254-$,
   Butler sketches at, i. 375, ii. 303, 329            261, 309, 328, 351, 354, 359, 427
Samothrace, ii. 217                                 and George Eliot, i. 173, 309-10
Sampson, George, "Samuel Butler," i.               and The Way of All Fleth, i. 202 foil.,
      xxiz                                             277-8. i97fil-, 3. I
Sampson Low & Co., i. 145-6                         on the brain, 1. 203-4
Samuel Butler (Hans Faesch's boat), ii.             and u when two or three are gathered
   248                                                 together," i. 225, ii. 235
      xxviii,Butler
"Samuel        47     and the Simeonites," i.       and concerts, i. 232, 234, 236, 255
                                                    refuses to collaborate with Butler, i,
" Samuel Butler : Recordsand Memorials,"                237-8
      (1903), i. xi, xxv                            " naturally greedy," i. 238
San Cusumano, ii. 157, 208, 244                     and kettle-holders, i. 238, 242, 424
San Gimignano and Tabachetti, ii. 87                  fi»; 436

                    SAVAGE (MISS) — SCOTCH
Savage, Miss Eliza Mary Ann {contd.)—       Savage, Miss Eliza Mary Ann [contd.)—
  her book on Art Needleworh, i. 242           on Butler's depreciation of Ernehm, i.
  and the typewriter, i. 24*                       390
  and having nothing to do, i. 246, 391        and the steamboat episode, 1. 390-91
  and the British Museum, i. 250, 255,         on the man who had an unexpected
     33*. 359                                     holiday, i. 391, ii. 383
  her health, i. 250, 378, 440, 442, 444       and the Fisheries Exhibition, i. 395-6
  her unselfishness, i. 252                    and the trombone, i. 399
  her nerves, i. 255, 256                      and Canon M'Corrnick, i. 400-401
  and the Bible, i. 262, 315-16, 331,          her Christmas card, i. 402
     421-2                                     and Romanes, i. 406
  her ancestors, i. 271                        and Narcissus, i. 415, 428-9
   and umbrellas, i. 271, 370, 397             and the socks, i. 422 foil.
   her Exhibitions, i. 274, 275, 304-5,        suggests that Butler should write the
      385-6, 405, 406                              Life of Darwin, i. 422
   her "natural propensity for lying," L       and the Christian Young Women, i.
     *75. 3°4. 4*5-6. <U+2666>**                         428, 436
   on the word " bright," i. 289               last illness and death, i. 439
   on Jandlords, i. 294, 356-7, 357-8,         funeral, i. 440-41, ii. 76
      359                                      tombstone and epitaph, i. 446-8
   on Grant Allen, 1. 304, 309                 her literary reputation, ii. 106
   on the Ladies' Guild, i. 305                and Butler's tete bornee, ii. 324
   and Capt. Carey, i. 308-10, 328              See also Pontifex, Alethea
   H. F. Jones and, i. 310-11               Savage, Humphrey Baskerville, i. 142
   Butler's notes about ("The Berners           Butler's letter to, on his daughter's
      Street Refuge," "Miss Ryder"), i.            correspondence with himself, i. 441-2
      3"                      .       . , .  Savage, James, i. 142
   on the Sunday Social Union Soiree, 1.     Savage, Thomas (murderer), i. 197
      312                                    Savery, John, i. 17
   and daffodils, i. 329-30                  Savery, Sarah (Butler's maternal grand
   and Wordsworth, i. 330-31                       mother, wife of PhilipJohn Worsley).
   and Alps and Sanatoria, i. 334-5, 356-7     See Worsley, Mrs. Philip John
   on wishing people dead, i. 336           Savoir Faire versus Holiness, ii. 172
   on tonics, i. 336-7, 359                 Sawyer and Heely (friends of James
   on Mr. Gladstone, i. 336, 338, 348,429          Butler), i. 7
   on The World at Drury Lane, i. 337-8.    Scamander, ii. 218 foil.
   and anachronisms, i. 338                 Scarlatti, Alessandro, ii. 300-301
   and Patience, i. 338, 344                Scarlatti, Domenico, ii. 300-301
   and dislocations, t. 344                 Scharf, G., i. 126
   and the Mammon of Righteousness, i.      Scheria, and Trapani, ii. 121-2, 134-5,
      345, ii. 206                                 148-9, 234, 261, 263
   on bed, i. 351                              and Corfu, ii. 211
  her plum-pudding-stone of worries, i.     Schliemann, Heinrich, and Troy, ii. 218
                                            Schmitt family, ii. 291-2
  on ham, i. 355                            Schoelcher, Victor, Life ofHandel, ii. 77
   on prize-books, i. 356                   Schopenhauer, ii. 374
   her bonnet, i. 358                       Schubert, Butler and, i. 49
  on crape bonnets, i. 359                     his songs, i. 285
  on the secret of getting well, i. 361        Rockstro on, ii. 92
  curries favour with God, i. 368           Schumann, i. 233
  and Waterloo Bridge, i. 369               Schumann, Mme., and Mendelssohn, ii. 91
  and the Appendix to ed. 2 of Evolution    Sciacca, ii. 329
     Old and New, i. 372-3                  Sciallara, Don Giovanni, ii. 142
  and Butler's pocket note-books, i. 373    Sciascia, Prof., ii. 268-9
  and lucidity, i. 378                      Science, Butler on the false propheta of, i.
  and mussels, i. 378                             4'3
  her cats, i. 378-9                           Butler on men of, i. 417
  and chestnuts, i. 379                     Scienlia, article on Butler in, i. xxviii
  and Butler's lecture on Memory, i.        Scogli He' Ciclopi, ii. 145, 181
     379-80                                 Scoglio di Malconsiglio, ii. 123, 134, 139,
  and Jachanapes, i. 380                          '43
  and Canon Butler, i. 385, 386, 401        Scotch humour, ii. 280

                             SCOTSMAN — SHARP                                                        521
Scott, Dean,
Scotsman,            259
            and ii.The Fair Haven, i. 201      Separation, social, i. 247
                                               Septentrionale, i. 278
Scott, Mis» (Woman's Gazette), i. 225,         Serious or jesting? i. 266, ii. 212, 275,
       23*                                           359
Scott, Miu (friend of MUe. Vaillant), ii.      Serra Lungs, ii. 57
       «47                                     Seven Humbugs of Christendom, i. 364-5
Scott, R. P. (Master of St. John'i Coll.       " Seven Sonnets and a Psalm of Montreal,"
      Camb.), and H. F. Jones's paper on             i. xxvi
      Butler, i. 46, ii. 421                   Seventh Humbug of Christendom, i. 365
   at the sixth Erewhon dinner, ii. 429        Seward, A. C, i. 318
Scott, W. B, i. 164                            Seward, Miss Anna, Life of Dr. Darwin,
Scott, Sir Walter, Butler on the novels of,          i. 320, ii. 448 foil.
      »¦ 347                                   Sexual question, ii. 49
Scott, Walter (Merton College, Oxford),        Shaftesbury, Lord, Butler's adaptation of
      Butler's letter to, on memory and              his saying about religion, ii. 106
       habit, i. 346-7                         Shakespeare, Butler's "Note on The
Scotto, Stefano, i. 32, ii. 63, 68, 69,              Tempest," i. 102
       390                                        Antony and Cleopatra quoted in con
"Sculptor, A, and a Shrine" (Universal               nection with Life and Habit, i. 213
      Rtvinu), ii. 69, 101                           and note
Scurati, Caves of the, ii. 1 47                   Hamlet and the Army examiner, i. 247
Scylla and Chary bdis, ii. 147                    his poetry as good as prose, i. 280
Sea-gulls, ii. 376                                his "We are such stuff as dreams are
Sea-lions, Mr. Birrell and, ii. 336                  made on," i. 432
" Searcher of Souls," ii. 334                     and music, ii. 84
Seccombe, Thomas, i. xxvii                        and the fine arts, ii. 84
Seebohm, Henry, and Butler at the                 one of the only two poets in the world
      Linnean Society, i. 435                        for Butler, ii. 84, 297, 320
   Butler and, i. 436, 438                        his unconscious life, ii. 205
Seed Cake, ii. 4                                  Butler buys the Temple edition of, ii.
Seeley, J. R., i. 182                                231
Seclisberg, Butler at, ii. 106                    Butler's habit of reading him nightly in
Segantini, i. 288                                    bed, ii. 231, 257, 322
Segesta, Butler at (1893), ii. 162-3              and the priest at Meien, ii. 236
   his note on its date, ii. 163                  Shakespearean sonnet form, ii. 368
   and "Non nevica," ii. 194                      Cornhill article on the Sonnets, ii. 370,
   Butler at (1896), ii. 243                         373
Segni, ii. 154, 155, 327                          and The Way ofAll Flesh, ii. 469
Selections from Previous Works (1884),               bibliography,
                                               Shakespeare*  s Sonnets      Reconsidered
                                                                        i. xxiv,         xxvii     (1899),
      bibliography, i. xxiii
   preparing, i. 403                              Butler begins puzzling over, ii. 231
   announced in The Athenaeum, i. 404             the book begun, ii. 272
   " as nasty as anything well can be," i.        Butler immersed in, ii. 294
      405                                         he learns them by heart, ii. 294
   " Remarks
      408, ii. 42" on Romanes in, i. 405,         his emendations, ii. 294
                                                  his criticism of, ii. 294-5
   Miss Savage on them, i. 406                    interruptions in writing the book, ii.
   published, i. 408                                 299 jw/.
   Hans Faesch and, ii. 227                       Garnett
                                                  Furnivall
                                                  published,
                                                 loss  on, ii.
                                                            and,
                                                               and,
                                                               ii. ii.ii.307-8,
                                                                310305     310 foil.     309, 314
   analysis of sales of, ii. 311
Selfe, James, i. 109-10
Selinunte, metopes from, at Palermo, ii.
      156                                         Bp.
                                                  Robert
                                                  Fcrnand
                                                 Vernon     Rendall
                                                             Henryand,
                                                        Creighton
                                                           Bridges      and,
                                                                          and,ii.ii.ii.
                                                                                     ii.315-16
                                                                       and,                385foil.319-20
                                                                                          316
                                                                                         314-15,
   Butler and the ruins at, ii. 160, 173, 193,
      145
   and Gower Street, ii. 208
   wild celery and, ii. 268-9, 4°4             Shan States, ii. 297, 335
Selinus, ii. 268                               Shandy, Capt., ii. 349
Sella, Attilio, " Un Inglese Fervido Amico     Shanghai and H. F. Jones, i. 31a
      dell' Italia : Samuele Butler," i. xxix  Shannon, Charles, ii. 303
Sellers, Miss Eugenie, ii. 348                 Sharp, R. F., A Dictionary of English
Semite (Handel), ii. 38                              Authors, ii. 293

522                           SHAW — SMITH
Shaw, George Bernard, i. xii                 Sicans, ii. 134, 139, 185, 260-61, 27a
  on Butler's style, ii. 76                  Si cell, ii. 134
  and Erivjhon Revisited, ii. infill., 370   Sichel, Miss Edith, Butler meets Mr.
  and the proposed new edition of Ex                Augustine Birrell with, ii. 336, 420
      Voto, ii, 369-70, 373                      and a note of Alfred's, ii. 347
   and vegetable*, ii. 374                       lunch with, ii. 368
   at the Erewhon dinners, ii. 419-20, 430       reviews Erewhon Revisited, ii. 370
Shaw, Mrs. George Bernard, at the seventh    Sicilian, Butler and the, who wanted to
      Erewhon dinner, ii. 430                       learn English, ii. 237-8
u She dwelt among the untrodden ways,"       Sicilians never forget, ii. 161
      i. 330                                 Sicily, Butler's first visit to, ii. 138
wShe waa too kind," ii. 350                      safety in, ii. 239, 329
Sheep, killing them, i. 79                       first visit with Jones, ii. 239 fill.
   Butler on, i. 92                              Butler's last visit to, ii. 388 fill.
Sheffield, ii. 336                           Siena, Butler and, i. 329, ii. 86, 303, 329
Shelley, P. B., the storm which wrecked,     Sigaeum, ii. 218
      i. 10, 387-8                           Sikes, Mr. E. E., Butler's letter to. on
   Mrs. J. S. Mill capable of surpassing,           translating the classics, ii. 207
      i. 401                                 Silence, Canon Butler on, i. 12
   Butler and, ii. 321, 322                  Silvio, on English literature, i. 432, 433
Shenley Hall, Shrewsbury, i. 1 1             Simcox, Miss Edith, and Harblot, ii.
"Shepherds with your nocks abiding"                 *3
      (Theodora), ii. 3                      Simeon, Capt., Butler's note on, 1. 105-6
Shepton Mallet, i. 2                         Simeonites, Butler and the, i. xxviii, 47,
ShiUeto, R., i. 49, 54, 57                             434
Shoreham, ii. ix, 247                        Simmias, ii. 379
Shorthouse, J. H. See John Inglesant         Sin, i. 239
Shrapnel, ii. 432                            Sinclair, Dr., death of, i. 82 note, 87, 88,
Shrewsbury, Abbey Foregate, i. 10, 166              94, ii. 361-2, 363
   collection of dried plants at the Museum  Sindhad the Sailor, i. 420
      given by Butler's father, i. 13        Singapore, and Hans Faesch, ii. 200, 203,
   Infirmary sermon at St. Chad's, i. 29-30         205, 206, 211, 224, 227
   Bp. Cartwright and, i. 30                 Sintram, Butler and, i. 373
   opening of railway to, i. 33              Siracuaa, ii. 156, 163
   earthquake at, i. 42                      Siren a, Prof., ii. 250
   Butler's people settle at, i. 244         Six, Jan, ii. 296
   Archaeological Society and Butler after   Skeletons in cupboards, Butler on, ii.
      the death of Canon Butler, ii. 7 1            289-90
   St. Mary's Church spire, ii. 180-81       Skertchley, S. J. B., and Tylor*s paper
   MS. of the Life of Dr. Butler given to           before the Linnean Society, i. 433-4
      the Free Library, ii. 252                  and Dunkett's Rat-Trap, i. 436
   Butler's packing inventory for, ii. 473   Skinner, Dr. (in The Way of All Flesh),
Shrewsbury School, Dr. Butler head                  taken from Dr. Kennedy of Shrews
      master of, i. 9, 18                           bury, i. 32-33
          succeeded by Dr. Kennedy, i. 32    Skinner, Mr. (hairdresser), ii. 103
   Butler enters, i. 32                      Skulls, Alfred and, ii. 209
   Butler at, i. Ji/oU.                          at Camino, ii. 289
   Butler's half-holiday for, i. 34, 393     Slade, Mr., i. 152
   tercentenary, i. 38                       Slade Professorship at Cambridge, Butler
   grammars for, i. 39-40                           stands for, ii. 30
   mathematical education at, i. 41              his testimonials, ii. 32-33
   water-colours by Butler given to, i. 44       unsuccessful, ii. 33-34, 199
   suggested removal of, i. 168, 196         Sladen, Douglas, ii. 377, 378
   and the Ballad of Wednesbury Cocking,     Slings and Stones, i. 226
      i. 348                                 Smalley, Mr., and Handel, i. 50, 51
   speeches, Butler at, ii. 39, 152-3, 247-8 Smiles, S., Life »fGeorge Moore, i. 289
   concerts, Butler's music performed at,    Smith, Dr. (Rottingdean), i. 230
      ii. 52, 117                            Smith, Jason, and " Mr. Heatherley*a
   portrait of Butler by himself given to,          Holiday," i. xii-xiii, ii. 403, 421
      ii. 424                                    and claret, i. 29
Shropshire, Butler's property in, ii. 301        and Hoare's companies, i. 196
Shylock at Crea, ii. 57-58                       and Butler's financial position, i. 244

                            SMITH — STEPHEN                                              523
Smith, Jason (ccntd.)—                          Sonnets, Shakespeare's. See Shakespeare
         Canon Butler'
   andproperty,   i. 352 1 resettlements of the Sora, ii. 153
                                                Sordo-Muto, ii. 143
   assists Butler financially, i. 353           Soudan, ii. 251, 300
   at Butler's funeral, ii. 400                 Soup, Butler's nightly, ii. 341-2
   death of, ii. 42 1                           South-Eastern Railway, i. 25
Smith, Elder & Co., i. 181                      South Sea Bubble, and Handel, i. 414
Smoking, Butler' and, ii. 168-9, I7^'7i         Southern, Henry (of The Westminster
       *57. 158                                       Review), i. 399, 401
Smyrna, ii. 217                                 Southern Cross, i. 74
Smythe, Lionel, with Butler at Heather-         Southey, Thomas, and Butler's father, i.
      ley'i, i. 137-8                                 13 .
   Butler and, at Boulogne, i. 366              Spada, Lionello, his Christ led to Cruci
   and Old Mortality, ii. 360-61                      fixion, at Parma, i. 394
Snails, ii. 189                                  Spalding, ii. 265, 268
Snowdon, i. 279                                 Spanish Armada, and Sonnet 107, ii. 310,
Soazza, the parroco at, and Alps and                  312
       Sanctuaries, ii. 22                      Spartali, Miss, i. 333
Society, the impossibility of combining it      Spectator, its cant, i. 162, 182
      with work, i. 1 17                           and " A Psalm of Montreal," i. 276-7
   its duties, i. 334                              its review of " The Humour of Homer,"
   filled with mephitic gases, ii. 235                ii. 132, 212
Society for Psychical Research, i. 232             and the Sonnets book, ii. 316
Society of Lady Artists, i. 274                    and Errwhon, ii. 375-6, 383
Socrates, one of the Seven Humbugs of           Spencer, Herbert, Butler and, in Selection!
       Christendom, i. 364                               from Previous Works, i. 405
   in"Ramblinga in Cheapaide," ii. 101,            letter to The Athenaeum on Romanes's
       ¦57                                                Mental Evolution in Animals, i. 409-
   why he never edited his works, ii. 315                 410
   and the Phaedo, ii. 379                            Butler on it, i. 410
Soglio, Butler at, i. 421                          Butler and, in Luck or Cunning t ii, 42,
   and Silvio, i. 432, 433, ii. 372                       43
Solicitor, " healthy distrust " of one's, ii.      and Darwinism, ii. 95
       102                                         and memory, ii. 458
"Sollicitus" (pseudonym used in the             Sphygmograph, i. 1 30
      Examiner correspondence, " A Clergy       Spinsters, adoring, i. 226-7
      man's Doubts"), i. 298                    " Splendid Slogging," ii. 297
Solmona, ii. 291                                Sporting Timet, ii. 5
Solomon (Handel), ii. 397                       Spurgeon, Mr., and " A Psalm of Montreal,"
Solunto, ii. 330                                           as soon
                                                   andi. "219, 220 as possible," i. 405, 406
Soma, La, ii. 113
" Some breeds do," i. 269-70                    Standard, on Life and Habit, i. 273 and
Somerset House, i. ziii                               note
Somerville Club, and Miss Savage, i. 380        Stanford, Sir C. V, and Narcissus, ii. 385
   Miss Savage on the members, i. 427           Stanley, Dean, Butler and, i. 360
   Butler's lecture on "Thought and             Staple Inn, H. F. Jones and, ii. 150, 302,
      Language " given at, ii. 93                     355. 397. 4-5
   Butler's lecture on " How to make the        Statham, Mr. H. Heathcote, Butler to,
      Beit of Life" given at, ii. 101, 205            on Erewhon Revisited, ii. 355*6
Sompting, i. 290                                Staunton, Howard, ii. 318
Sonnet forms, ii. 368                           Stebbing, Miss Grace, ii. 430
Sonnets, Butler's, " He who gave eyes to        Stebbing, Rev. Henry, i. 230, ii. 430
      ears," i. 413                             Stebbing, Theophilus, i. 230
  " Not on sad Stygian shore," written, ii.     Steel, Miss Savage and, i. 336
         294                                    Steelyards, ii. 307
         text, 361
      printed   in The Athenaeum, ii. 360-61,   Steen, Jan, "Grace before Meat," it
      and MacColl, ii. 367                            3«4 Pietro de, and Butler, ii. 110-
                                                Stefanis,
     and Dudgeon, ii. 413                             112
  " Searcher of Souls," ii. 334                 Stein, Madame von, and Goethe, i. 2 17
  "She was too kind," ii. 350                         187, Leslie,
                                                Stephen,     189    and The Fair Haven, i.
  "And now, though twenty years," ii.350 I

5*4                       STEPHEN — TAORMINA
Stephen, Leslie (ctmtJ.)—                           Suicide,
                                                          ii. 174
                                                    Sullivan,   Sir Arthur,
                                                               Butler           The Loat Chord,"
                                                                      on, ii. "74
   and Mils Savage, i. 208
   particular! ai to, i. 209
   Butler'i review of his Essays, i. 209            Sumner, Rev. John, i. 142
          341, ii.
   bili.advice      the Darwin-Butler
                in 425,  427               quarrel, Sunchild, The, ii. 338, 354
                                                    Sunch'iton, ii. 355
   and the but driver, ii. 370                      Sunday Social Union Soiree, i. 312
Stevenage, Wonley family connected with,            Sunday walks, Butler's, i. 289, ii. 257
      i. 16                                         Sunflowers, i. 290-91
Stevens, Victor, ii. 372-3                          Sunninghill, ii. 232
Stillman, W. J., i. 333                                   the, i. 303-4
                                                    Super-Organic     Kingdom, Butler's note on
Stilton cheese, i. 28
Stockton, F. R., The Lady or the Tiger f            Supertonic, the grave, ii. 229
      ii. 240-41                                    Surgey, I. B., i. 192
Stocquelar, ii. 354-5                               Surrey Theatre, ii. 368, 370, 372
Stokes, Sir O. Gabriel, ii. 354                     " Surtout point de xele " and " A Clergy-
Stolberg, on Trapani, ii. 135, 148                        man'i Doubts," i. 122
Stone, Mill (Dr. Butler'i maternal grand               and Miss Savage, i. 312
      mother), i. X                                    and Carl vie, i. 355
Stonehenge, ii. 368                                 Sutton, Mr., i. 399
Stones our poor relations, i. 303                   Swinburne, A. C, ii. 293
Stonyhunt College, ii. 293                                the, ii. railway,
                                                    Switchback     185       Butler and Alfred on
Storr Ic Mortimer, it 50
Strabo, ii. 218                                        his proposed
                                                    Switzerland,      tour infirst
                                                                    Butler'i       visit i.to,48i. 15
                                                                                (1856),
Stratford-on-Avon, Butler at, ii. 232
   Shakespeare's retirement to, ii. 315             Sykes, F. G., i. 50
Strauu, David Friedrich, i. 178, 179, 180,
       19 1-2, 200                                  T. P.'s Weekly, articlea on Butler in, i.
Streatfeild, Richard Alexander (Butler'i                  xxviii, xxix
      literary executor), and H. F. Jonei,          Tabachetti [Tabaguet], Jean Baptiste
      i. xi                                               ( = Jean de Wespin), "to be ran," ii.
   and " Samuel Butler : Record! and                      54
       Memorials," i. xi, xxv                          at Crea, ii. 57-58, 195, 249
   paper on Butler in The Monthly Review,              hit62,  225
                                                             "Journey    to Calvary" Chapel, ii.
       i. xxv, 363
   as editor, i. xxv foil.                             hii connection with Dinant, ii. 66, 98,
   on Alps and Sanctuariet, i. 363                         "5°. '73
   and Handel, i. 413                                  and " II Vecchietto," ii. 68, 69, 70
   and Erewhon Revisited, ii. 338, 341                 Butler searching for his work, ii. 87,
   and The Tune and the Fiddle, ii. 378,                   '3*
       379                                             and the Avvocato Negri, ii. 70, 101,
   and Butler'i letter to Tie Spectator on                109-10, 137, 153, 195, 225, 249,
       Erewhon, ii. 384                                   343-4, 348, 369-7°. 3*4
   at Butler'i funeral, ii. 400                        and Nelson, ii. 330
   and Butler'i will, ii. 402-3                        Butler's propoied book on, ii. 369, 373,
   and performance* of Butler'i music, ii.                384, 385. 39°
      4'3. 4*°                                      Tabachetti, Nicola, ii. 249
   and the Erewhon dinners, ii. 417, 419            Tabaguet. See Tabachetti
   and Butler'i MSS., ii. 434                       Toilet, review of Alps and Sanctuaries in,
Street (architect), i. 126                                i. 367-8
Stretton, Manor of, i. 2                            "Tack,"ii. 187
Stretton-on-Dummore, i. 2                           Taine, H., i. 143
Strong, Mr. [Erewhon Revisited), ii. 357            Talbot, E. S., Bp. of Rochester, i. 163
Strong,
      348,Mr.390and Mri. Arthur, ii. 342-3,         Talmud, i. 262
                                                    Tamburello, Prof, ii. 272
Style, Butler on, ii. 76-7, 295, 322, 370           Tamplin, A. L., i. 63, 226
Success, ii. 16-17                                  Tankerville, Earl of, i. 10
Sucking-pigi, ii. 62                                Tanner, Edward, ii. 355, 400
Suffrage meeting, i. 193                            Tannhauser, i. 135
Sugameli,
      OdysseyPietro,
                theories,  ii. 148-50,
                       Butler'i  letter to,     his
                                        244,on292,  Taormina, Butler and Jones at, ii. 243.
                                                          327
      *93                                              Jones ill at, ii. 292

                             TAORMINA — TIMES                                                          525
Taormina {ccntd.)—                                and
                                                  at Palermo,
                                               Thomas,   TheMiss
                                                              Authoress,
                                                                   ii.
                                                                    Bertha          279
                                                                        342 ii.(contd.)—
   strikes
   and      at, ii. 329
         Logidail,   ii. 342
Tarnowski, Count, ii. 296                      Thompson, Elizabeth (afterwards Lady
Tate Gallery, "Mr. Heatherley's Holiday"                pictures,i. i.367-8
                                                  herButler),           367-8
      at, i. xix, ii. 421
   picturei by F. H. Potter at, ii. 48         Thompson, E. Seymer, i. 188-9
Taygetus range, ii. 208, 216                   Thompson, J. M., i. 120
Tayler, Mary (second wife of William           Thomson, J. Arthur, on " Darwin's Pre
      Butler II.). See Butler, Mn. William,          decessors," i. 319
      II.                                      Thomson, William, Archbishop of York, i.
Tayler, Samuel, i. 2, 4                              198
Taylor, Annie (wife of Philip Woraley)         "Thought and Language," ii. 93, 101,
      (d. 1893). See Worsley, Mr». Philip             117
Taylor, Misi Helen, on being historical,          Sordo-Muto in, ii. 142-3
      i. 401                                   Three Millions of Money, i. 249
Taylor, J. E., Butler on his Sagacity and      Thucydides, i. 34, 57
      Morality of Plana, i. 404                   on Mt. Eryi, ii. 139, 260
Taylor, Tom, i. 336, 360                          speech of Pericles translated by F.
Taylors of Norwich, i. 12, 17,27-8, 230              Harrison and by Butler, ii. 371-2
   and John Worsley, ii. 35                    Thurcaston, i. 230
Tea, Butler's staple drink, i. 129             Thurlaston, i. 1
   and toast, i. 246                           Thurlow, Lord, ii. 22
Telemachus, in Butler's Odyssey, ii. 158       Thurnam, Dr. Rowland, ii. 389-90, 428
Telephone, i. 264                              Thymbra, ii. 217
Temper, on losing the, i. 246-7                      i. 163
                                               Tickets,    on transferring non-transferable,
Temple Bar, on Butler, i. 338
Tcnedos, ii. 217                                  and women,
                                               Tiger,               ii. 240-41
                                                        and Rockstro,          ii. 230
Tennyson, Lord, Idylls of the King, i. 78,
      ii. 321                                  Tillbrook, Rev. S., letter of his to Dr.
   Butler and, i. 79, 382, ii. 322                Butler
                                                  Dr.Butlerandquoted,
                                                        Butler's   letters
                                                                 his       ii. in173
                                                                       letters,      ii. 252-3,
                                                                                    verse           253-4
                                                                                            to, ii.273
   and daffodils, i. 329-30
   Alpt and Sanctuaries and, ii. 13
   " the Darwin of Poetry," ii. 76             Tillbrooks, Butler and the, ii. 103
   succeeded by Alfred Austin, ii. 293           and
                                                 Butler's
                                                 Capt.
                                                  Missthe
                                               Times,   Mr.
                                                          Savage
                                                          Carey's
                                                             National
                                                              notice
                                                              Gladstone,
                                                                   and,
                                                                    notice
                                                                      letter
                                                        obituary         ofLiberal
                                                                                262
                                                                                of
                                                                                in,
                                                                                 i. 338,
                                                                                     Butler
                                                                            i. Tylor's     ii.
                                                                                            paper
                                                                                      i. Club,
                                                                                         308-9 in,
                                                                                                 i. i.280
                                                                                               36           i.
                                                                                                       in,xxv
   "Oriana," ii. 323
   Life of, ii. 348 and note, 357, 359
Termini, ii. 270, 271
Thackeray, W. M., i. 79, 102, ii. 11
Thalaba, i. 13
Thalcs, i. 264                                      435
Thames Ditton, i. 248                             Miss Thomas in, on the Gaudenzio
Thanksgiving trousers, ii. 355                       Ferrari celebrations, ii. 23
" That Thing," ii. 229                            inevitableness of, ii. 68
"Thego," Dogs
            ii. of
                156,the255Monks of St. Bernard   its musical critics, ii. 90, 326
                                                 Butler in, on the "Crucifixion Chapel"
"The Rain it raineth every day," ii. 423            at Varallo, ii. 164
"The Wicked, Lurking Robber," ii. 255             Butler's letter, "Robbery in the Streets,"
Theodora, ii. 3                                      in, ii. 167
" There are more liea in honest truth," ii.      Butler reads it daily, ii. 256
      «3                                         the " Times " war correspondent and
"There lives more doubt," i. 358, ii. 13             Butler, ii. 282-3
"There was a young lady named Ford,"              Hanky's Sermon and, ii. 354
      ii. 174                                     Mrs. Gallup in, ii. 360, 370
Thersites, ii. 188                               and Stonehenge, ii. 368
Things, perversity of, i. 203                  Times Literary Supplement, articles on
Thomas, Miss Bertha, i. 142                          Butler in, i. xxvi, xxvii
   Miss Savage on, i. 174                         on Darwin and Butler, i. 318-19
   at Soglio, i. 421                             started, ii. 365
   and the Gaudenzio Ferrari festa at             and the Dictionary of National Biography,
   andVarallo,
         Narcissus,
                 ii. 23
                      ii. 28                         ii. 369, 373
                                                  and Krerwhon, ii. 377

 526               "TINKERING" — TYPEWRITER
 "Tinkering a Skeleton," 6r»t title of               Trombone, Miss Savage on the, i. 399
       "Mr. Heatherley's Holiday," i. 201            Troy, ii. 218
 Tintoretto (Venice), i. 394                         Triibncr & Co., and Ernuhott, i. 148-9,
 Tinworth Exhibition, i. 105                               158-9
 Tipsy, Butler on getting, ii. 183                      Butler's
                                                        and        relations
                                                              Mivart,     i. 406with, i. 294
 Tiryns, ii. 21 3 fill.
 "TU better to have loved and lo«t," ii.                and Grant Allen's Colour Senst, ii. 20
    13                                               Trumpington, i. 83
 Titian,
 Til-Bits,
    at Venice,
       Parma,
            ii. 210
           Butler       394 i. 383, ii. 381
                   i.i.and,
                       394                           Truth, on Life and Habit, u 273
                                                     Trying and Getting, ii. 17
                                                     Tuke, H. S, at Heatherley's, i. 134
                                                        and Handel, i. 329
    supposed Titian in the Louvre, ii. 27               Butler on, i. 332-3
    and Felibien, ii. 31                             Tulle, i. 247
    and the Bellini heads, ii. 31, 32                Tummarello, ii. 292
 Toast, i. 203, 246                                  Tune and the Fiddle, ii. 378 foil., 406
 Toby (parrot), i. 173                              Tunny fisheries, picture of, at Palermo, ii.
 Toft, near Dunchurch, i. 1                                330
 Tokay of 1795, i. 29                               Tupper, Martin F., ii. 422
Tom, Old (Barnard's Inn), ii. 302                   Turbot, i. 18
 Tonbridge, ii. 81                                   Turks, religion of the, ii. 26
 Tonio, and H. S. Tuke, i. 333                      Turn bull. A. H., i. 102, ii. 71
Toothbrush riots, ii. 57                            Turner,     Mrs.,i.heard
                                                           Messiah,        230 Handel conduct the
Topini, Carlo, i. 145, ii. 61
Tortoises, ii. 214, 215                                    note,of309
                                                     Twilight       the Gods (Garnett), ii. 123 and
Tottenham Court Road, and Miss Savage,
      i. 309                                        Twins, Dr. Butler and, ii. 74
   the " Horse Shoe " and Mary, Queen of            " Two Deans, The," i. 55
   andScots,
         Butler's
                ii. 101 translation of the Odyssey, Tybalt (cat), i. 378
                                                    Tylor, Alfred, Butler visits him at
      ii. 105                                           particulars
                                                       his  paper
                                                          ing   the Lata
                                                                     Onof,a i.Neva
                                                             experiments
                                                           Carshalton,       of410
                                                                                at
                                                                                 Specific
                                                                                     Carshalton,
                                                                                      Method
                                                                                410-11          tf Express*
                                                                                           Change,        41 1
                                                                                                     i.i. 411,
Tower Hamlets, ii. 39
      ii. 8 {The Way of All Flak), i. 398,
Towneley
   385 Bp., and Alps and Sanctuaries, i.
Tozer,
                                                          433. "¦ 4*
Translation, Butler on, ii. 298, 335                      Linnean
                                                             paper On
                                                       hisProtoplasmic Society,
                                                                           sheContinuity
                                                                                 Growth
                                                                                    i. 433, of    43
                                                                                                  Trees and
                                                                                             ii.before     the
Trapani, i. 8
   exorcism at, i. 26, ii. 143, 169
   and Scheria, ii. 111-2, 134-5, 148-9,               Butler's note on this paper, i. 433-5
      234, 261, 263, 278-9                                 Times, i.notice
                                                       Butler's       435 of this paper in the
   Butler at, ii. 237-8, 244, 329, 342
   S. Maria di Gesn, ii. 244-5                            reception,
                                                       Tylor'a           i. 43 5
                                                                  disappointment          at his paper's
   and Alessandro Scarlatti, ii. 300
   Conte Pepoli's collections at, ii. 300              his coachman, Dunkett, i. 436
   and Canterbury, N.Z., ii. 362                       his death, i. 438
Tregaskis, James, i. 100                               liu tier's note on him, i. 438
Trench, R. C, Miss Savage and, i. 361                  Butler on his death, i. 439
Trevelyan, Sir George, i. 153-4                        Luck or Cunning T dedicated to bis
Triggs, Mr. W. H. (Editor of Tit Press,                   memory, ii. 41
      N.Z.), i. xii, 84, 100, ii. 386                  story of, ii. 41-2
Trimmer, Mrs., i. 355                               Tylor, Mrs. Alfred, ii. 41
Trinity, Butler and the, i. 96, 97                  Tylor, Mrs., and Holman Hunt, ii. 21
   T. W. G. Butler and the, i. 134-5                   and Queen Victoria, ii. 21, 383
Tristram Shandy, marriage service and, i.           Tylor, Sir Edward B., L 410
      136-7, ii. 214                                Tyndall, Prof., on Evolution, i. 371
   Yorick and Butler, ii. 275                          Butler's "natural enemy," i. 385
   Mrs. Wadman, ii. 349                                in Addenda for the Pontifex novel, ii.
   burial service and, ii. 363                            470
Tritonus, ii. 229                                   Typewriter, Miss Savage and the, i. 243
Troad, Butler in the, ii. 217/0/.'.                    Butler and the, ii. 28
Troilus, ii. 288                                       invention of the, ii. 114

                           UCCETTA — VARESE                                             527
UccetU, ii. 337-8                              Undine, Butler and, i. 373
Uglineii and Cleverness, i. 198                Unimaginativeness, ii. 3, 354
Ugolino (Dante), ii. 107                       Unitarians, i. 95, 97
Ulysses, to Amphinomui, ii. 171                Universal Review, Butler's papers in the,
Vlyiui.      By Samuel Butler and Henry              bibliography, i. xxiv, ii. 101
       Fetring Jones (1904), bibliography, i.     " Quis desiderio . . . ? " ii. 66
       xxvi                                       "A Sculptor and a Shrine," ii. 69, 101
   projected, ii. 38                              "The Aunt, the Nieces, and the Dog,"
   beginnings, ii. 65                               ii. 82-4
   Rockstro and, ii. 91, 230-31                  suggested papers, ii. 86
   progressing, ii. 104-5                        "L'Affaire Holbein -Rippcl," 11.87-8,
   words mostly written by Butler, ii. 105           IOI
   " Man in Vain," performed at Shrews           " A Medieval Girl School," ii. 88
      bury, ii. 117                              "The Deadlock in Darwinism," ii. 95,
   the Sirens music, ii. 125                         "3"
   being finished, ii. 197, 247                  " Art in the Valley of Saas," ii. 100
   S. P. Waddington and, ii. 23 1, 326, 368,     " Ramblings in Cheapside," ii. 100-10 r,
      370, 374. 4>3                                  '57
   "Now let your Trumpets," ii. 257,             " Analysis
                                                    and, ii. 310
                                                 republication, of ii.
                                                                   the101,     of my396
                                                                        Sales135-6,   Books "
      258
   Butler much occupied with the orchestra
      tion of, ii. 320                        Unmarried man, the expense* of an, i.
   Butler's half completed, ii. 356                 336
   performed, ii. 413                         Unwin, Mr. T. Fisher, and Erewhtm
   published, ii. 413                               Revisited, ii. 251
Umberto, King, i. 281                         Ustica, ii. 139
       397 Miss Savage and, i. 271, 370,
Umbrellas,                                    Utveggio, Michele, ii. 392
   the Just, the Unjust, and, ii. 423         Vaccination, ii. 235
Unconscious Memory (1880), autobio            Vaillant, Gabriclle, i. 225, 234, 236,
      graphical material in, i. xi                  444-5, ii. 89-90, 107, 147, 150
   bibliography, i. xxiii                     Fal-Sesia, on Butler and Cagnoni, ii. 24
   quoted as to Butler's " Dialogue," i. 99   Valletta, ii. 327
   quoted as to Life and Habit, i. 212-13     Valpy, Edward, i. 230
   quoted as to God the Known and God         Van Eyck, at Modena, i. 394
      the Unknown, i. 303                     Vansittart, James Butler's voyage in the,
   Darwin and, i. 323, 339-44, 372, ii. 78          '•5-7
   beginnings, i. 329, 331                       wreck of the, i. 7
   half done, i. 332                          Varallino, ii. 138
   proofs, i. 335                             Varallo, Butler's first visit to, i. 145
   published, i. 338                             and the Paget* (1879), i. 307
   summary of, i. 339-41                         Gaudenzio Ferrari celebrations at, ii.
   Butler on, i. 342-4, 412, 430                    zifoll.
   Bp. of Carlisle and, i. 344-5                 Butler and Jones at, ii. 54 foil.
   review of, in the Si. James's Gamete, i.      banquet to Butler at, ii. 56
      347                                        Butler and the chapel* on the Sacro
   Kennedy and, i. 348                              Monte at, ii. 56-7, 58, 62-3, 68-9,
   Romanes's review of, in Nature, i. 349-          100, 163-4, 249-50
      350, 408, ii. 459.M                        Butler's winter visit to, ii. 60-63
   Krause and, i. 349-50, ii. 28-9, 459/0//.     Butler photographed at, ii. 63
  Athenaeum and Academy declined to              Mile. G. Vaillant and Miss Scott at, ii.
      announce, i. 404                              107
   Luck or Cunning t and, ii. 42                 the wild old man at, ii. 245
   S. H. Burbury and, ii. 96                     visitors' book at, ii. 254
  analysis of the sales of, ii. 311              J. M. Wilson and, ii. 303
   many copies burnt, ii. 314, 425               H. F. Jones at (1903), ii. 410
   Edward Clodd and, ii. 434                        281-2,
                                              Varese,        ii. 228
                                                         Butler    and Jones at (1879), i,
Unconscious Memory. New Edition, biblio
      graphy, i. xxvii                           Edward Lear at, i. 306
  published, ii. 425                             "our fair friend" at, ii. 25
Underground Railway, explosion on the,           " Christ and the Doctor* " chapel, ii. 26
      i. 396, ii. 7                              liqueur episode, ii. 377, 378

528                         VEAUX — WASSEN
Veaux, ii. 43 1                              Virgil (contd.)—
" Vecchictto, II," ii. 68, 69, 70               one of the Seven Humbugs of Christen
Vegetables, Rights of, ii. 374                     dom, i. 364
 Veglio's Restaurant, i. 139                    Butler on, i. 382
 Vela, Spartaco, i. Z39, 288, 306, ii. 40       and the Phaeacians, ii. 1 34
Venice, Butler meets the Rusaian Lady        Vispertiminen, bad figures at, ii. 98
      at (1870), i, 132-3                    Vittorio Emanuele, and the Avvocato
   gondolas aent to Verona from, during             Negri, ii. 113
      the 1882 floods, i. 376                   and "Viva Verdi," ii. 161
   and the Bellini heads, ii. 27, 32         "Viva Verdi," ii. 161
Venice, Accademia, Bellinis at the, i.       Vivisection, i. 238
      394                                    Vogogna, and Alps and Sanctuaries, i. 308
   Titians, i. 394                           Voltaire, and The Fair Haven, i. 161
Venice, San Giorgio degli Schiavoni, Car-       and Miss Savage, i. 268
      paccio at, i. 394                         and "le mieux est l'ennemi du bien,"
Venice, San Giovanni Crisostomo, Seb. del           »• 334
      Piombo at, i. 394                      Volterra, Butler at, ii. 85
Venice, Scuo/a di San Rocco, Tintorettos     Votes for Women, i. 193
      at, i. 394                             Votive pictures, i. 115, 1 46
Ventnor, Mrs. Bridges at, i. 368                and the sea-captain at the Fisheries
Venus de Medici, toes of, i. 64                    Exhibition, i. 395
"Venus and Adonis," it. 295, 308, 321        Voysey, Charles, i. 226-7
"Venus laughing from the Skies," i. 241      Vulgate, Ecclesiastes iii. 21 in the, i. 374
Vercelli, Archbishop of, at Varallo, ii. 107
   and Casale, ii. 290                       W. H., Mr., ii. 313, 315, 317-18, 325
Verdi, Giuseppe, Falstaff, i. 288            Waddington, S. P., ii. 231, 326, 365, 368,
   "Viva Verdi," ii. 161                            37°. 374. 385. 413
" Verdi, Giuseppe " (Joseph Green), i. 56    Wade, Henry, le Son, and the White
Verga, Signor, ii. 348                             hall estate, ii. 344
" Verifiable Everywhere," i. 202             Wadman, Mrs. [Tristram Shandy), ii. 349
Veroli, ii. 153                              Wagner, and Rossini, ii. 276
   street ball at, it 154                       Preislied (Meistersinger), ii. 332
Verona, Butler and the floods at (1882),        as a pioneer of Humanitarianism, ii. 373
      i. 376.7                               Waimakiriri, river, i. 80
   floods at (1888), ii. 68                  Waitaki, river, i. 84
   Butler at (1899), ii. 303                 Walker, Emery, i. xii
Vestiges of Creation, i. 165, 340, ii. 456     and Butler's picture of Dean's Yard, i
Vesuvius, ii. 242-3                                426
" Via Samuel Butler," ii. 409                  and Ercwhm Revisited, ii. 339, 340,
Vianna de Lima, ii. 30                              341
Viareggio, ii. 215                              and the Erewhon dinners, ii. 417, 418
Vtcar of Wahefield, quoted as to Rem         Wallace, A. R., Butler meets him at a
      brandt's " Staalmeesters," ii. 297           Spiritual Seance, i. 127
Vicenza, Butler at, ii. 27                             and at the Buckleys', i. 316
Victoria, Queen, and astrology, i. 388         extract from his book, My Life, i. 316-
   Miss Savage and her Journal, i. 429             317
Victorianisms, ii. 298                         swallows Butler's humbug, 1. 317
Vien-tiane, ii. 297, 335                       an apostle of Luck, ii. 43
Viggiona, ii. 11o, i11, 112                     his Darwinism, ii. 95
Vilaine, Miss Savage's umbrella in the, i.     Butler on, ii. 131
      370                                    Wallis, H., i. 154, 164
Villari, Madame, i. 329                      Walmisley, T. A., Butler's note on, i. 49
Vincenro (Marettimo), ii. 188                Wandering Rocks, ii. 262
Vinci, Leonardo da, Butler on " The Last     Wapping, ii. 345
      Supper," i. 328                        Wardour Street, and Butcher and Lang,
   at Varallo, ii. 61-2, 68, 69                    ii. 105
   and Nelson, ii. 330                       Warner, Charles Dudley, Miss Savage on
   Butler and, ii. 381                             his Pusley, i. 395-6
Vintage at Madeira, i. 5                   .    Butler on it, i. 396
Viola, i. 140, ii. 89                        Warren, Mrs., i. 305-6
Violino vecchio, ii. 328                     Wassen, Butler and Alfred at, ii. 209
Virgil, and Miss Savage, i. 202                Butler and Jones at, ii. 236, 250

                          WASSEN                     WHITEHALL                                  529
Wassen
  and
  Butler     at
          the(contd.)—
               Sonnets
             "editing
                 (1897),his
                 (1900), book, 332ii. 30$ at (1901),
                          ii. remains"
                               272                    Webster, Mrs. Augusta, Butler and, i.
                                                            416-17
                                                      Wedding presents, ii. 379
                                                      Wedgwood, Miss Julia, and Harblot, ii. 23
                                                      Wednesbury Cocking.             See Ballad of
       »• 347. 349.M. 35*. 353                              Wednesbury Cocking
Watchorn, Mrs., i. 19                                 Weekes tc Co., ii. 4 1 3
Water-melona, i. 215                                  Weekly Register, and Alpi and Sanctuaria,
Waterloo, Battle of, ii. 378                               i. 367-9
Waterloo Bridge, not damaged by Miss                  Weismannism, ii. 116
       Savage, i. 369                                 Weldon family, i. 2
Waterloo Station, ii. 399                             Wcldon, Mr., ii. 5, 6
Watford Gap, i. 167, ii. 403                          Weldon, Mrs., her actions at law, i. 425
Watt, Mr. (literary agent), ii. 184, 198                and Mrs. Bridges, ii. 6
Watta-Dunton, Theodore, ii. 368                       Wei! 'I on, Rev. James Ind, i. 10, ii. 81
Way of All Flat, Tit (published 1903),                Wellington, Duke of, ii. 378
       autobiographical quality of, i. zi, 19         Wembley, ii. 260
      Jill., 32, ii. 9/0//.                           Wespin, Jean de. See Tabachetti
   bibliography, i. xxv, xxvi, xxix                   West, Alice (of Toft, near Dunchurch),
   origin and composition of, i. 21, ii. I fell.            marries Henry Butler (1580), i. I
   family reminiscences introduced into, i.           West, Benjamin, i. 355, 357
       21-3, 402, ii. zfoll., 392, 409                Westerham, i. 290
   reminiscences of Dr. Kennedy intro                 Westminster, Duke of, as a landlord, i. 356
       duced into, i. 32-3, 348, 397                    and a Rembrandt, ii. 296
   and of Cambridge, i. 47, 49, 51, 399               Westminster, Butler's pictures of, i. 424,
  and of Butler's quarrel with his father,                  426
       i. 61-2, 65                                         i. 141 Abbey, and Reginald Worsley,
                                                      Westminster
  and of Langar, i. 116, ii. 414^0//.
   first settled scheme for, i. 191                     and Dean Stanley, i. 360
   Butler "very much interested," i. 199              Westminster Bridge Road, ii. 284
   begun, i. 201                                      Westmintter Review, and Henry Southern,
   progress, and Miss Savage's criticisms,                  1. 399, 401
       i. 202 foil.                                   Whately, Canon, i. 1 1
  to go ahead and be "quite innocent," i.             Whately, Mrs. Canon (daughter of Arch
       214                                                  deacon Lloyd), i. 1 1
   Mrs. Jupp in, i. 243, 392, 415, ii. 10,            Whately, Joseph, i. 1 1
       32*. 47 »                                           i. 11 Mrs. Joseph (Jane Plumer),
                                                      Whately,
  to be shortened, i. 275-6
  growing apace, i. 276                               Whately, Richard, i. 1 1
   Christian in, i. 278                               Whatton, i. 231
  to be finished off, i. 291, 389                           Butler).
                                                      Wheeler,            See Butler,
                                                                   Ada (wife             Mrs. Thomas
                                                                                   of Henry    Henry
  Alethea in, i. 208, 232, 247, 310, 401,
       447-8, ii. a                                         Thomas
   will-shaking episode in, i. 315                    " When Jones was tired of trampling on
  re-writing, i. 384, 397/e/A, 405                          his mother," i. 334
   H. F. Jones and, i. 389                            " When two or three are gathered together,"
   Heathcrley and, i. 389-90                                i. 225, ii. 235
   Garnett and, i. 389, 396                           Wherry, George, and Butler at Saas Fie,
   Butler on, i. 390, 400                                   ii. 99-100
   "crossing" in, i. 392                              Whist, i. 221
   church orchestra in, i. 399                        Whistlerism, i. 304
   Canon M'Cormick and, ii. 8                         Whitcombe (N.Z. period), i. 152, ii. 363,
   burnt in horror and disgust, ii. 9                       39'
   misprints in the first edition, ii. 13-14          White, Joseph Blanco, i. 186
   Butler's intention to alter George Ponti           Whitehall estate, i. 10, 35
       le*, ii. 73                                       Butler's interest in, i. 166-7
  Mrs. MacCarthy and, ii. 99                             quarrel, i. 168
  the copy of Alcaics, ii. 156, 255                          169, refuses
                                                         Butler    196      to join in the sale of, i.
  Cuthbert Creighton and, ii. 180
  Chronology and Addenda for, ii. 468 foil.              and Mrs. Lloyd, i. 288, 293
" We know that all things work together                     version
                                                         Butler       in,toi. raise
                                                                  tries       313-14money on his re-
      for good," ii. 14-16

53°                  WHITEHALL — WORRIES
Whitehall estate (.cntJ.) —                    Winchester and E. A. Hall, i. 231
   Butler on ill value, i. 351-1               Winchester, Bp. of (191 1), and the Re
   hit reversion made absolute, L 352                surrection, i. 121
   development, ii. 52                         Wine, i. 29
   names of streets on, ii. 344                  at
                                                  England
                                                 red   champagne
                                                             produces
                                                      Marettimo,       ii.
                                                                        of 189
                                                                             Etna,
                                                                             no,       111-12
                                                                                  ii. ii. 182-3
Whitehall, i. 262
Whiteing, Richard, ii. 420
"Whitewashing of Penelope, The," ii.           Wisdom from the West, ii. 221 fall.
       119,150                                 Wishing people dead, i. 293, 305, 336
Whiting, Abbot, i. 2 and note                  "With Care," i. 253
Whitman, Walt, at to purposi veness, i. 333    "With thee th' unsheltered moor I'd
   at to the mania of owning, things, i.             tread," ii. 397
       400                                     Woking, Butler cremated at, ii. 400
• Wicked (The) larking robber," ii. 255          his ashes buried there, ii. 401
Widford, near Ware, L 1 1                      Wollttonecraft, Mary, Miss Savage on her
Wilderhope, Dr. Butler's Italian pictures            Letters to Imlaj, i. 3 10
       at, i. 115                              " Woman taken in Adultery," ii. 38
   Butler's family settles there, i. 244       Woman's Gazette, and Miss Savage, i. 225,
   Butler and hit picture at, i. 393
   Butler and Wordsworth at, ii. 322                 226,Savage's
                                                  Miss     234 articles in, i. 242
   Butler at, ii. 357 fill.                       Robert
                                               Women,
                                                  brigandsButler
                                                           Browning
                                                             and, on,ii. 272 and,
                                                                            ii. 106ii. 241
   auriculas from, ii. 404
   Jones at, ii. 404 fill.
Wiliclm Meister, "the very worst book"         Wonder Coach, i. 33
       Butler ever read, i. 216                Wood, Mr. H. J. f., ii. 41 3, 420
   Miss Savage on, i. 216-17                   Wood-pigeons, ii. 342
   Butler classes it with Jolt* Inglesant,     Woodman's (N.Z.), ii. 169
       '• 373                                  Woodsiaa, Canon Butler and, i. 279, ii. 470
Wilkinson's, ii. 345                              at Faido, ii. 40
Wilkinson, Mr. Spenser, at the sixth           Wooldridge, H. E, and Narcissus, ii. 37
       Ercwhon dinner, ii. 429                 Woolner, Thomas, i. 157
Willes, W. A, on the voyage home               Worcester sauce, i. 361
       from N.Z. in 1864, i. 109               Word-pictures, Miss Savage on, i. 357
   at the tilth Ercwhon dinner, ii. 429        Wordsworth, William, an un-self-consciom
William Allen, ii. 151                            Miss  Lucy,
                                                  andartist,
                                                         Savage
                                                             i. i.232
                                                                    on
                                                                    330-31,      ii. 65, 66, 83
                                                                           The Excursion,!.     331
Williams, Arthur, i. 280
Williams, Edward Ellerker (friend of
       Shelley), i. 10                            The Expurgated Wordsworth (Ainger), i.
Williams, Evans, i. 280                               355
 Williams, Sir J. S., note on G        , i. 84    and Alps and Sanctuaries, i. 368
    and on Butler, i. 85                          and Tillbrook, ii. 253 and note
    and on W. S. Moorhoute, i. 170                Butler and, ii. 321, 322
    at the seventh Ercwhon dinner, ii. 430     Wordsworth Society, i. 330
 Williams,
        i. 279 William (the Butlers' butler),  Workedlegh ( = Worsley), i. 16
                                                Working Man, i. 193, 198
 Willie, Mrs., and Mrs. Boat, i. 432, 433       Working Men's College, Butler's lecture
 Wills, Mr. Justice, i. 212                           " On Memory as a Key to the Phe
    and The Authoress, ii. 281                        nomena of Heredity" at, i. 379-80
 Wilmot, Sir Eardley, and his first cousin,        other lectures given by Butler at, i. 380
        i. 261-2                                   Butler's lecture on "The Principle
 Wilton, Mr. (B.M.), and The Authoress,               underlying the subdivision of the
        ii. 280                                       Organic World into Animal and
 Wilton, Rev. J. M., and The Eagle, i. 55             Vegetable " at, ii. 41, 47
    and Alps and Sanctuaries, ii. 303              Butler's lecture on "Thought and
     Butler'a letter to, ii. 303-4                    Language" at, ii. 93, IOI, 117
 Wilton, Mist, i. 227                              Butler's lecture on " The Humour of
 Wiltshire, i. 264                                    Homer" at, ii. 123, 136
 Wimbledon, i. 229                              World, a wicked, i. 150
  Wimereux, i. 137                              World, The (Drury Lane), Mitt Savage
 Wincheltea, ii. 217                                  on, i. 337-8
 Winchester, and Pauli, i. 106                  World of the Unborn, i. 145
     Butler on Winchester men, i. 107           Worriet, i. 354

                              WORSLEY — ZULULAND                                                 53i
Woraley family, i. 16, 17, 95                      Wright, F. and W., their book on New
Worslcy, Anna, ii. 14, 363                               Zealand, ii. 169-70
Woraley, Fanny (S. Butlcr'a mother). See           " Wright, Lewis " (pseudonym used,
      Butler, Mn. Thomaa                                 probably by Butler, in the Examiner
Woraley, John (d. 1736), i. 16                           correspondence, " A               Clergyman's
Woraley, John (d. 1767), i. 16                           Doubts"), i. 298
   makes a new translation of the New              Wright, R. T„ hia letter declining Tit
      Testament, i. 16                                   Life and Lttiers of Dr. Samuel Butler,
   hia family, i. 16                                     ii. 198
Woraley, Mra. John (Grace Hughes), i. 16           Wright, William Aldis, and FitzGerald'a
Woraley, John (Butlcr'a uncle), ii. 35, 189              Letters, ii. 365, 370
Woraley, Philip (Butler's uncle, d. 1893),         Writing, Butler on early, ii. 233
      i. 17                                           Butler on the art of, ii. 294-5
   on
   death
   and   George
         Dr.
        the
         Crabb
           of,
            success
               Parkea,
                ii.Robinson,
                    152of i.Ereviion,
                    Pontifex,           3 i. 154-5
                              140i.ii. 126         Wyllie, C, i. 137
                                                   Wyllie, W. L., i. 137
                                                   Wynne, Mra. (Samuel Parr'a daughter),
Woraley, Mra. Philip (Annie Taylor), i.            X, Mrs., and "The Humour of Homer,"
      »7. *7                                            ii. 136
   her account of Mendelssohn, i. 28                  and Z, ii. 199
Woraley, Philip (Butler'a cousin), i. zii, 17         and Bairemitch, ii. 221
   Butler'a letter to, on his religioua               Butler and, ii. 365, 367
      opinions, i. 96-7                            "X. Y. Z.", Butler's poem, "The
   and Dean Pigou, ii. 330                               Righteous Man," so signed in Tie
Woraley, Philip John (son of Samuel                      Examiner, i. 298
      Woraley and S. Butler'a maternal
      grandfather), i. I, 13, 17                   Yakoub,
                                                   Y                  217 fill.ii. 369
                                                      and theii.Sonnets,
      i. 13,Mrs.
Woraley,       17 Philip John (Sarah Savery),
                                                   Yorick,
                                                   Ydgrun,
                                                   Yale,
                                                   Yarmouth,
                                                           i. xxix
                                                              ii.
                                                               ii. 275  230
                                                                    i.375
Woraley, Reginald (Butler'a couain), i. 17
   and an edition of Handel, i. 36
   on marriage, i. 140
   on going to church, i. 141                      York, Archbishop of, at the Shrewsbury
   on George M'Culloch, i. 141                           Dinner (1886), ii. 39
   and hia laundress, i. 243, 392-3                   pudding, i. 87
                                                   Yorkshire,           83
   walks with Butler, i. 289
   on Gothic architecture, i. 290                  Young, W. T., on Butler in Tie Cam.
   on sunflowers, i. 290                                 bridge Hist, of Eng. Lit., i. xxix
   and sentiment, i. 290                           Ypres, the Barristers at, ii. 48, 268-70
      entry,Butler
   teaches     i. 384 book-keeping by double          and (Erewion
                                                   Yram                    News, ii. 356-7
                                                            the Daily Revisited),      ii. 353
   and Uncle John Woraley, ii. 35
   and Narcissus, ii. 37                           Z, and Mra. X, ii. 199
   and the Note- Bocks, ii. 120                    Z, Mr. and Mrs., ii. 365
   and Butler'a death and funeral, ii. 398-9       Zangwill, I., i. xxvii
   an executor of Butler'a will, ii. 402           Zarephath, Widow of, ii. 4
Woraley, Richard (Butler'a cousin), i. 72,         Zecchero, i. 43
       126, ii. 399                                Zerbini, i. 255
       i. 16,Samuel
Woraley,       17        (aon of John Worsley),    Zimmem, Misa Helen, and Tie Italian
                                                         Gazette, i. xxiv, ii. 211
       i. 16 Mra. Samuel (Hannah Carter),
Woraley,                                              at Soglio, i. 421
                                                      at Varallo, ii. 23, 24
Worsley, Samuel (Butler'a uncle), ii. 36              and Narcissus, ii. 28
Woraley, Sarah (Butler'a aunt), and                   in Rome, ii. 240
       Misa Arabella Buckley, i. 360-61, 382          in Florence, ii. 291
    Butler and, ii. 35-7                              at Palermo, ii. 342
Woraley, Thomaa (d. 1685), i. 16                   Zio Paolo, ii. 56, 58, 62-3
 Wrexham, i. 228                                   Zola, ii. 227
 Wright (N.Z. period), i. 105-6                           i. 392 Gardena, therapeutic value of,
                                                   Zoological
 Wright of Derby, family of, ii. 414
 Wright, Rev. D. F., ii. 4i4/«//.                   Zululand and the Prince Imperial, i. 308-9

  PnnUd by R. & K. Clahk, Limited, Edinburgh.
?


DEC 6 1966
    U.C BERKELEY LIBRARIES
   C00Qba37M1
¦^
                           s~



