Silvanous Phillips Thompson, D.Sc., Ll.D., F.R.S. : his life and letters
/ by Jane Smeal Thompson and Helen G. Thompson.

Thompson, Jane Smeal Henderson.
London : T. F. Unwin, 1920.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015076333411

                                         
SILVANUS PHILLIPS THOMPSON
The Life of John Payne

By THOMAS WRIGHT, Author
of "The Life of William Cowper,"

etc. With 18 Illustrations. Cloth,

a8/- net.

Few great authors appeal more                        to  t"heThimeagJoinhan
PtiaonynethaSnocJioehtyn/'                           of
                                 Payne, the    hero  the limelight ot
                                 who shrank    from
"interviewing." Recognised as a true poet by
Swinburne, he was probably the most skilful
translator of the nineteenth century, for we owe
to him a version of Villon's poems which is itself
a poetic work of consummate art, the first com
plete translation of the "Arabian Nights," the
first complete verse rendering of Omar Khayyam's
quatrains, to .say nothing of translations of The
Decameron," etc. Among his friends were Swin
burne, Sir Richard Burton, Dante Gabriel Rossetti,
Arthur
Victor  HOu'Sghoa,uKhDnaensvsiyll,e,      French authors such as
                                                                    and the
artist who ventured to                    adnedpictMa"llaGrmode,  with eyes
turned inward upon His own glory." For twelve
years before             Payne's    defraiethnd,inan1d916as,Mdru. riWngrighatll
was his most              intimate
that time, he had in view the writing of Payne's
oLbiftea(inihneg  lost   next    to none   of  his opportunities for
                     at   first    band   the   facts and opinions
needed for his work. Moreover, Payne made
him a present of a MS. autobiography and
supplied him with valuable material from his

letter-files.

T. FISHER UNWIN, LTD., LONDON
[Fronlispiect
        SILVANUS
PHILLIPS THOMPSON

                          D.Sc., LL.D., F.R.S.

  HIS LIFE AND LETTERS

                                                                BY

            JANE SMEAL T"HOMPSON
                                            AND

              HELEN G. THOMPSON, B.Sc.

                          WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

         LONDON: T. FISHER UNWIN, LTD.
                      ADELPHI TERRACE
 Firtt published in 1920

Ali RIGHTS EKSEKVED
N
'I

n
3

                         PREFACE

    MEASURED by years, the life of Silvanus Phillips Thompson

    was not a long one ; but each day and each year was full,
    and in that sense long. He was essentially a man of action.

    Passing away as he did while still at the height of his activi

    ties, no leisure had come to him to sift and sort his accumu

    lated papers, and his biographers have had to deal with an

    immense mass of material relating to his work and to his

    hobbies, only a small fraction of which is presented here.

       He was too busy a    man to keep   haisny"  autobiographical
    journal, or even brief  daily diary,           little blue note
    books " of the last fifteen years being the nearest approach

    to one. Nor was he after his marriage in 1881 a regular

    writer of letters, save to his wife on the exceptional occasions

    when she was not with him.

    We wish to thank many of his friends whose letters are

    tqhueotecda,ricaantudreMs r.ofJo"hnBroHtahsesralMl afogrnepteirzmeris."sion    to  reproduce
                                                                                 We    are most

    grateful for the kind way in which our request for the loan

    of his letters has been met by his friends. Of course we

    have to deplore that some of his correspondents either have

    not been able to find his letters or have not kept them,

    for some of the missing ones would have been the best

    revelation of the playful side of his nature so difficult to

    present, and which so endeared him to the circle of his family

    and his intimate friends. Again and again we have been

    conscious of the extreme difficulty for us, standing in such

    close relation to him as his wife and his daughter, to see

    the man in his true perspective.
       As we endeavoured to portray him through his work, it

    seemed that, for the most part, the material was best

    adapted for arrangement according to subject rather than
    in strict chronological order : thus Chapter V covers work
vi PREFACE

achieving early distinction and continuing throughout hia
XIIlife, and Chapter
                      deals with other work begun as early

but reaching its maximum in the latter part of his life. By

confining the more technical matter to a few chapters which
can if desired be omitted, we have tried to represent the

man's life in its fulness, without making it tedious to those

lacking knowledge of science.  J. S. T.

                               H. G. T.
      CONTENTS

                    CHAPTER I         .             PAOB

ANCESTRY, BIRTH, AND EARLY TRAINING        .1

                   CHAPTER II         .    . 10

COLLEGE LITE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING       . 28

                   CHAPTER III

LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL ; EARLY RESEARCHES

                        CHAPTER IV    . -.       47

PIONEER WORK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION

                CHAPTER V

........TELEPHONE
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE   ..         62

               CHAPTER VI

      RESEARCH AND FIRST BIOGRAPHICAL

WORK                                             108
.....BURY
                CHAPTER Vn

REMOVAL TO LONDON ; TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINS-
                                      . . .124
                           CHAPTER

......LIFE IN LONDON. BIOGRAPHY or FARADAY, UNI
VERSITY REFORM                                   152

                vii
viii CONTENTS

                       CHAPTER IX       THE                     na

RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION ;                             183
       ROENTGEN SOCIETY

              CHAPTER X

WORK FOR THE INSTITUTION or         ELECTRICAL                  204
                                    ELECTRICAL                  226
       ENGINEERS AND INTERNATIONAL
                                                             -
        CONGRESSES

              CHAPTER XI

THE GILBERT CLUB : THE LIBRARY AND LITERARY
       EXCURSIONS

              CHAPTER XII

OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION .  .         . . 253

                    CHAPTER XIII

THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY . . 278

                       CHAPTER XIV
HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS . . . . .296

              CHAPTER XV

.318RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS ...

              CHAPTER XVI

LATER YEARS                                                        338

                           ^

........LIST OF HONOURS AND DEGRESS, ETC. . . . 356
BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                    357

INDEX                                                           367
     LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

PORTRAIT OF SILVANUS P. THOMPSON . , Frontispiece

                                                                          PiCINO PAGB

SILVANUS P. THOMPSON STANDING                     BESIDE HIS ELDER
      BROTHER, W. H. THOMPSON .                       ... .

             From a daguerreotype taken In 1859.
....PROFESSOR TYNDALL LECTURING TO A JUVENILE AUDIENCE                         6
     AT THE ROVAL INSTITUTION, 1876                                          22

     From a pen-and-ink sketch by S. P. T.

SILVANUS P. THOMPSON AT THE AGE OF TWENTY-FIVE                            .   34
                                                                              34
BRITISH ASSOCIATION, TORONTO, 1897 ; DISCUSSION ON                           138
       THE HOMEWARD VOYAGE

.....CARICATURE PORTRAIT OF SILVANUS P. THOMPSON LECTUR
     ING AT FlNSBURY COLLEGE

THE  " DOCTOR " AMONG HIS APPARATUS                           .        .   .148

     J.From a photograph taken by Russell & Sons about 1910.     " FLY    IN
                                                                                 244
CARICATURE OF SILVANUS P. THOMPSON AS A
      AMBER"

     By John Hawaii.

"A MANY-SIDED CRYSTAL"                                                       252

               By John Hassall.

A NATURAL ICE ARCH ON THE GLACIER D'ARGENTIERE . 306

            From a water-colour by S. P. T.

THE AIGUILLE VERTE FROM " LB PLANET " . . .310

           From a water-colour by S. P. T.

SILVANUS P. THOMPSON LECTURING TO A JUVENILE AUDI-                           338
       BNCE AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION, CHRISTMAS 1910 .

             From a photograph taken for th« Jjuily Mirror.

SILVANUS P. THOMPSON AND HIS FIRST GRANDCHILD,                               352
       GULIELMA MARY AGGS

           From a photograph taken by T. Edmonds Hall In 1914.
                                                       ix
        SILVANUS
PHILLIPS THOMPSON

    HIS LIFE AND LETTERS

                        CHAPTER I

           ANCESTRY, BIRTH, AND EARLY TRAINING

THE family of Thompson of Morland, Westmorland, to

which Silvanus Phillips Thompson belonged, trace their

ancestry to one Thomas Thompson, a yeoman farmer of

Strickland in Westmorland, whose grandson, John Thompson

of Barton in the same county, came and settled at Morland

in the later years of the seventeenth century.

   Of him it is recorded on    h"isa  tombstone that  he was a
highly educated gentleman,             great admirer  and well

versed in the politer sort of literature," and that in 1699

he kept a Grammar School at Morland. The house which

he built there bears, carved over the doorway, the initials

of himself and his wife, and the date 1722, and still belongs

to one of   his descendants.   H"eadnieedmiinne1n7t3, 6,waonrdthyth,eaPnadriisnh
Register   states that he was

genious schoolmaster."

He left one son, Thomas, whose three sons, about the

middle of the century, became members of the Society of

Friends, or Quakers, who were at that time a very numerous

body in Westmorland. These young men all suffered the

penalty of dismissal from their father's house, a fate not

uncommon in those days of intolerance. However, at
the father's death the eldest son, John, succeeded to the

house and property at Morland, where he lived, and became

a worthy minister of the Society of Friends.

1
2 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

     The second son, Thomas, great-grandfather of Silvanus

Phillips Thompson, settled at Appleby, where he started as

a grocer and later became a highly respected banker in the
town. Of him it was said that he was of a very pacific
disposition, and if he heard quarrelling or profane language

in the market-place, he would rush out and try to reconcile

those who disagreed. He is remembered at Appleby as the

rebuilder of a bridge, which, being swept away by a great

flood in 1812, was reconstructed by him at his own expense.

Carved on the bridge are his initials : T. T. 1813.
   In the later years of his life he was almost ruined by a

disastrous fire which burned down the bank. He behaved

with the greatest generosity, especially to the poorer de

positors.

    The arms of the Thompsons, though not used by the

early Quakers, were preserved in a sketch which came down
to the grandson Silvanus Thompson of York. They were

a stag's head cabossed, on a shield argent, wavy a crescent

or.   The   crest  was a    dexter arm  e: m"bIonwdeudstrwieitsh   hand hold
ing  three  ears   of corn   or. Motto                            Munus."

    When Silvanus P. Thompson was writing notes for the

Life of Lord Kelvin, he records that in 1899 he received the

following letter from him regarding the Thompson arms :

  " It is interesting to find that you too have ears of corn,

though with a different motto. No doubt your family with
the ' p ' and mine without are of common origin in the north

Iwest of England and south-west of Scotland, suppose.

ItOur shield also has a stag's head on the lower part of it.

has three stars above the stag's head."

as  The family to which Sir William     "Tpho"mosuotn   belonged had,
     a matter of fact, dropped the                     of their name

when they went to reside in Scotland, adopting the more

common way of spelling the name in that country.

    Thomas Thompson of Appleby left several sons and

daughters. The youngest son, also Thomas, had begun his

studies as a doctor, but had to abandon that career after

the misfortune of the fire. He went to London, where he

took up the study of pharmaceutical chemistry under
ANCESTRY, BIRTH, AND EARLY TRAINING 3

William Allen, a Quaker, then head of the famous firm of

Allen & Hanbury. As he showed himself a young man of

great scientific ability, he soon became acquainted with

some of the men of science of those days. Among them
were the Quaker brothers --Richard Phillips, physicist and

intimate friend of Michael Faraday, and William Phillips,

geologist and Fellow of the Linnean Society, both also

Fellows of the Royal Society. They were of a Welsh

family which came originally from Swansea, and had

numerous branches. Thomas Thompson married their

sister, Frances Phillips, and started a business as pharma

ceutical and manufacturing chemist at Liverpool. This

business still exists, and is being carried on by his great-

grandson, Edwin Thompson.

  A learned man, and much interested in antiquarian

studies, Thomas Thompson, during his long life of eighty-six

years (he died in 1861), made various collections, of coins,
autographs, minerals, and old books, especially of those

relating to the early history of chemistry. Some of these

latter afterwards became part of the library of his grand

son, Silvanus Phillips Thompson.

Frances Thompson shared the intellectual tastes and

pursuits of her husband, and their home was occasionally

visited by her brothers. She was very vivacious, bright,

and clever, and was described       once by the late John
Bright as a " notable woman."       They had a large family,

many of whom inherited the Celtic quickness and strong

sense of humour of their mother. The eldest son, George,

succeeded to the family business ; two others emigrated to

Canada, where they founded families in the province of

Ontario. The youngest son, Silvanus, chose the teaching

profession as his vocation in hie.

The antiquated regulations of the older Universities of

Oxford and Cambridge made it impossible for a Quaker
to benefit from them at that time, so Silvanus Thompson

proceeded to London to finish his studies at University

College, and worked at Mathematics under the father of

William de Morgan.

He obtained a post as Master at the Friends' School for
4 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

boys at York in 1841, and in 1848 married Bridget Tatham,
daughter of John Tatham of Settle.

The Tathams of Settle belonged to a family which, in the

person of Richard de Tatham of the Parish of Tatham in

Lancashire, was ennobled by the King for his services as

leader of the archers at the Battle of Flodden. Their arms

were a shield   argent and azure with three martens    s"abPlero;
and crest of a  hand holding three arrows, with motto

Deo, Pro Rege, Pro Patria."
  At the time of the rise of the Quakers in the seventeenth

century some of his descendants joined that body, and one,

Marmaduke Tatham, the direct ancestor of the Tathams

of Settle, was imprisoned in Lancaster Castle in 1660 during

the persecutions which took place at the beginning of the

reign of Charles II.

   The first John Tatham who went to reside at Settle was

the fourth in succession to Marmaduke, and was the grand

father of Bridget Thompson.

The second John Tatham conducted the old-established

business of grocer, druggist, and draper in the Market

Square of Settle, and built a house, known as Castle Hill

House, under the shadow of the Castle Rock which dominates

the little town. Here his family were born. His first wife

was delicate, and only two of her children, Bridget and a

sister, survived to maturity. He married a second time,

and had other children ; two sons grew up, but both died
young. John Tatham was a very noted botanist in his day,

and corresponded with botanists all over the kingdom.

He discovered many rare plants and ferns, and was an ardent

collector. His collections at a later date went to form part
of the National Collection at Kew. His daughter Bridget

shared his enthusiasm for botany, accompanied him on his

rambles over the Pennines, and became a keen student

and collector of plants. It was in connexion with this

pursuit that she became acquainted with Silvanus Thomp

son. They were married at the old Friends' Meeting
House at Settle, and went to live at York at a small house,

43, Union Terrace, adjoining the playing-fields of Bootham
School to which they had access by a gate from their
ANCESTRY, BIRTH, AND EARLY TRAINING 5

back garden. Afterwards, when their family became

numerous, they took the house next door, No. 45, and

opened doors of communication between.

Silvanus Thompson was a quiet man, of gentle manner,

intellectual tastes, and a religious disposition. As a teacher
he was clear in presentation, and enriched his lessons with

a wealth of historical illustration. In appearance he was

tall and thin, and resembled his mother in colouring, in

heriting also her strong sense of humour.
   Bridget Thompson was petite, fair, and of delicate con

stitution, but full of energy and charm. Their eldest child,

a son, William Henry, was born in 1849, and the second,
Silvanus Phillips, on June 19th, 1851. Three other sons

and three daughters followed, of whom one boy died in

infancy. This little flock was most carefully reared and

trained by the father and mother. Bridget Thompson had

a wonderful gift in educating children. Long before the

ideas of Froebel or Montessori had reached the educational

world in this country, she trained her children in drawing,
nature study, and handicraft, and taught them at a very

early age to reproduce what they had seen.
   The little Silvanus showed a scientific bent when very

young, and began to draw when he was scarcely more than
a baby. His mother used to tell many stories of his preco

city, and treasured his early paintings and little objects

made of wood or cardboard, which already showed the

neatness and capacity for taking pains, which were of such

service to him in his later scientific studies.

   Silvanus was a very good-tempered and merry little
child ; he resembled his Celtic ancestors in the blue-grey eyes
and black curly hair, but was slightly built and small like

his mother. He was very thoughtful, and ;one day, while

f"wloaMwtcohttihhnergoru, gaahrbea?bb"yabsyHi'sissterbsrisaotinenrshisMhoamllroioawthewtrua'sbsekmsnoefosetr,  he asked her,
                                                                                                               the instinct to
                                                                                                               like him, and

was always a favourite playfellow. She wrote in later

years :

  I" came next in age to Silvanus, and was eager to share

his fun and mischief, and patiently endured when the
6 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

scientific experimentor had need of a victim. Silvanua
would make wonderful cranes and lifts, and haul me up
and down in them, and though they often broke, and bumps
resulted, his active mind was always ready to plan a new
and improved method. Once he had been reading in a book
of travels, a description of how tatooing was done. When
left alone in the nursery he borrowed nurse's darning needle
and pricked into my wrist a star. Nurse returned to find
him rubbing ashes from the grate into it. Forty years
after, it could still be faintly seen."

   Their father's duties at the school kept him very closely
occupied, but he drew his children into pursuits which he
enjoyed himself, the collection of coins and autographs,
the study of heraldry, and the reading aloud of poetry and
fine prose. They were brought up on Dickens, and often
quoted his writings. When the grandfather died, in 1861,
his collections of coins and autographs came to the family,
and the older children much enjoyed them.

   At the age of ten Silvanus coloured a drawing which
he had designed himself, impaling the coats of arms of the
Thompson and Tatham families, the only heraldic mistake
he made being that he put the arms of his mother on the
 wrong side. This drawing was preserved by her, and is still
 in existence.

    When the two elder boys were five and three years of age,
 they suffered from a severe attack of scarlet fever, which
 had bad effects on them both. The eldest was seriously
 retarded in development, and Silvanus was left with a
 delicate throat, which rendered him liable to attacks of
 laryngitis.

     Often when ailing the children were sent to their grand
 father's home at Settle, and sometimes also the school
 holidays were spent there. They grew up with a great love
 for the beautiful mountain scenery which surrounds the
 little town in the middle of Ribblesdale where then1 grand
 father lived. They became familiar with crag and water
 fall, and their interest in botany was stimulated by searching
 for the rare Tatham fern, or some other plant first discovered
 by their grandfather. They learned to .take long tramps
SILVANUS P. THOMPSON  STANDING BESIDE HIS ELDER BROTHER, W. H. THOMPSON.

                               From a daguerreotype token in 1850.
   ANCESTRY, BIRTH, AND EARLY TRAINING 7

over the moors and fells, and Silvanus all his life preferred
this form of exercise to any other.

  In August 1858 the two eldest boys were sufficiently

advanced in their education to enter Bootham School as
day boys, where they were placed in the lowest class. For
four years Silvanus remained the youngest boy in the
school, though it was not long before he was promoted to a

higher class.
   Bootham School, begun as a private enterprise and

taken over by a committee of Yorkshire Quakers to provide
a good education for the sons of their members, has, through
the eminence of some of its old scholars and the ability of
its headmasters, made a name for itself in the annals of

those who are pioneers in education. In 1858 it was, however,

quite a small school of about fifty boys, and though occupy
ing its present site, was very different from the fine building
which has since been erected.

   John Ford, its first headmaster, was at that time still
connected with it. He was an original and able educator.
As in the present day, one of the great objects of the school
was to give the boys a wide outlook on the world around
 them, and to teach them to make good use of their leisure,
 by the encouragement of all kinds of handicrafts and
 natural history hobbies. Careful training, too, was given for
 the attainment of that self-control which is .the mark of the
 Quaker, and was a constant aim in the minds of the masters.
 John Ford did not at that time reside at the school, and the
 actual superintendence fell upon his second in command,
 Fielden Thorp, B.A.

    The Head was a very enthusiastic advocate of the joys

 of natural history studies, and used to give half-yearly
 addresses to the boys on that subject. His Sunday evening
 discourses were very impressive, and certainly had a most
 powerful formative influence upon his hearers.

     He and his wife were childless, and became very much
 attached to the clever children of his colleague Silvanus
 Thompson. Especially after his wife's death, John Ford
 almost adopted some of them, and the four little brothers

 often stayed with him in St. Mary's near the Abbey.
8 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

In an article entitled " A Scientist in the Bud " which

appeared in the school magazine, James Edmund Clark,

a former schoolfellow, gave an account of Silvanus as a
schoolboy. He was fond of games, but not very proficient,

and never reached the school cricket eleven ; he was therefore

not a hero with the boys. His lessons never gave him any

trouble or seemed to present any difficulties. In class

time he used to amuse himself with sketching in his note
books. His productions were the envy of his class mates,

who strove to outdo their impish ugliness in vain. In later

years he still sketched in notebooks, and the record of many

a scientific lecture or international committee was enriched

by clever pencil drawings, sometimes by way of caricature,

of people present. Silvanus very early became a con

tributor to the school magazine, one of his first essays being
on "Electricity," a subject which was to absorb so much

of his future life. He also gained a prize for a botanical

collection made at the age of twelve.

   The school was fortunate in having a very clever visiting
art master, Mr. Edwin Moore, brother of the famous Henry
Moore, R.A., and of Albert Moore. Silvanus profited much

by his teaching, and continued his studies under him after

school days were over.
In 1865, when he reached the senior class at the school,

he took up the study of astronomy with great enthusiasm,
J.taonrdy.wit"h
                   E. Clark spent much  time in  the school  observa
               Probably his earliest    printed  scientific  observa

tions will be found in the ' Luminous Meteor Committee's '

Report to the British Association, 1867."

  At the age of sixteen he, with some of his schoolfellows,

was taken to London to sit for the Matriculation of the

University. The examination in those days was very

comprehensive, including Greek, Latin, French, German,

Chemistry, Hydrostatics, and Mechanics, besides English

subjects. Fortunately for Silvanus, his splendid memory

and the ease with which he learned languages carried him

triumphantly through the ordeal.        " in     one of  those  quiet
   They stayed with their master

streets between the Strand and the River."
ANCESTRY, BIRTH, AND EARLY TRAINING 9

   The following letter, on June 24th, 1867, written from
Angus's Hotel, tells a little of the eager interest of the boy
on his first visit to London.

I" MY D"EPAeRrhFaApTsHEyRo,u will have curiosity to know why
am so long in London without telling you what has befallen
me there, and perhaps more would have befallen me if

I IIIIIIIIII, IIh"""""""aSSAAYSdSccccecceeeebttnnnneeeseeecne:n:ein::A:RoFLBeAfIwloeVgunnayeir,sdelltikUtonrepSnaagttptccttorito.eaeoionrle:nSlntt.SRS.Ht;ouo.oPonfSuamJdcasuyaeemel--ny's--eeDD:--siro'nasbmcmutaw:oPtagaraTiticrot:hCkinea,etgTrefp.hfSHleeletocrnmatrt.Gsneyedrr.e,saGtteoutracCyr.dit:sy,.

VIIIWe""stSTmcweinonsetehra.ppy :  Royal             Academy (magical).  An      invitation
                                   hours             among the works.

III: I:to Croydon.
  I"Act                                                                     John Morland's,
where J.                                                                eleven o'clock this
E.  The Country.. Scene
                                                     stopped till
    C. and

mo"rnBinugt. the long and short of it is that both the Latin

Ipapers have been very easy, and we are much encouraged

lor the future. Both Jim and finished the Grammar in
an hour -- only one-half the specified time. We are rather
ianftr"oaiCdtrhoeoyfdctoohnuentirGsyr.eaekv.Ietryis
                                                     nice place and much spread        out
                                                     very hard to sleep here from      the
roar of the trains from Ludgate Hill to Blackfriars which

wakes you up about every twenty minutes."

   IThe letter was                 em" beglloisthehdim      with a   drawing of   one  of the
                                                             before  the papers  were   given
.Latin examiners.

out." Walks in the London parks, steamboat excursions

o"nPetphpeer'sThaGmheoss,ts,"andweare                visit  a  to the   Polytechnic to see
                                                      all       joy to  the eager lad, who

never forgot his first visit to London,
                     CHAPTER n

               COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING

A LONG holiday of three months, much of which was devoted

to sketching, followed the last term of schoolboy life. Then,
in September, Silvanus entered the Quaker training college,
at Pontefract, Yorkshire, called the Flounders Institute.
Here, being only sixteen years of age, he was again the
youngest among the twelve students who were being trained
as teachers, some of his old schoolfellows being included

am"onTghomthpesonnu'smbcearp. acity for work was enormous," wrote one

of his college mates. Set free from the trammels of school
life, he studied late into the night, and rose early to work
before breakfast. As he was a very sound sleeper, he in
vented a system of pulleys to drag off the bed-clothes
when his alarum clock went off at a certain hour.

   At that time he was devoting himself to classical studies,
a training which in after-life he greatly valued, and he never
joined in the depreciation of the attention given in schools
to Greek and Latin which has so often been indulged in by
some advocates of a more modern training. Curiously
enough, in the diaries kept while at college there were more
entries about cricket than about any other subject.

    The Flounders Institute was situated not far from Ack-
worth School, one of the oldest and most famous schools
of the Society of Friends, which had a boys' and a girls'
 department. On Sundays the children were allowed to meet
 and walk with sisters or cousins. The young students from
Flounders also came to meet their relations, and as Silvanus

                                                                        10
COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 11

had two sisters, Maria and Rachel, attending the school, he

often came down on Sundays to see them. There were
also some little cousins there, and of one of them he became

very fond, and wrote sentimental short poems and acrostics,
which he dedicated to her. Many young folk of sixteen
perpetrate poetry, but Silvanus never gave up making

verses during the rest of his days.
   He was expecting to sit for his B.A. examination in the

summer of 1869, but in March that year he and several

other students were attacked by a severe epidemic of

typhoid fever caused by a contaminated water-supply.
One young life of great promise was cut off, and for many
weeks Silvanus Thompson lay in a state of delirium. For
tunately for him the illness began while he was at home,
so his mother was able to nurse him herself, the younger
children being sent away. He was very weak for a long
time after the attack, and stayed at Ilkley on the moors,
where he worked at his favourite hobby, sketching in water-
colours, during long summer days. Later on he went with

his sisters to the Lake District, and made some sketches

there which showed great promise.

   In fact for a time, owing in part to his delicate health,

 he was in doubt whether to continue his training as a teacher,
 or to devote himself to an artistic career. However, by the
 autumn Silvanus was well enough to return to college, and
 even to pass his examination for the B.A. degree of London

 University.
    Many years later, when speaking at the opening of the

 John Bright Library at Bootham School, Silvanus told an
 amusing episode about himself at this period :

I I" was a student at Flounders College when first saw
IJoochcansioBnr.ighItt,but
was    did not get   to know him on that        first
      at Ackworth   General Meeting, after      had
      -- think the   year was 1 869 --that
I Ileft the Flounders                           was
Iintroduced to John Bright.
                             was introduced by the
Irevered headmaster of this school, John Ford.
                                                had, as a

matter of fact, just a few months before, passed my examina
Ition for the degree of B.A. in the University of London,

and suppose a lad of nineteen in that position is rather apt
12 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Ito betray a good conceit of himself.            was introduced to
John Bright by John Ford with the words : ' John Bright,
allow me to introduce to thee a son of thy old friend

Silvanus Thompson ; the young man is a Bachelor of Arts
of the University of London.' John Bright took in the
situation, tipped his nose a little into the air, looked at

me through his blue eyes, gave a sort of sniff, and this was all
he had to say to congratulate me : ' Nature provides a very
convenient safety-valve for knowledge too rapidly
            '
acquired  !    Can you imagine a more complete dressing
down for the young hopeful of nineteen ? -- no doubt im
measurably well deserved. But the crestfallen young man
lived to thank John Bright for the good service he had done
him in that somewhat brutal manner."

The following year, 1870, he went as junior master to

Bootham School, where his father was still senior master ;

to avoid confusion, he was at that time always called

Phillips, which the sisters and brothers shortened to Phil.

But the work of a junior master by no means satisfied

the extraordinary intellectual energy of the student. He

immediately took up the study of science, particularly

chemistry, and at the end of three years succeeded in

gaining the    post of  science master  in the   s:ch"ooHl.is  One of his
colleagues,    Alfred   Kemp Brown,      writes                lessons at

York were admirable, illustrated with diagrams prepared

with his special artistic talent." He taught chemistry,

physics, and electricity, and much of the electric apparatus

constructed by him was in use many years afterwards in

the school laboratory.

Caring little for games, he was not very popular with the

boys, except those who went in for making scientific collec

tions, or shared his taste for art ; these found him a tremend

ously stimulating companion. He continued to take lessons

from Mr. Edwin Moore, and in a letter to a former school

fellow he wrote in 1873 :

   " The school seems to be going on pretty much as usual.
A football match with Scarboro' to come off in about a
fortnight is now all the talk. E. E. Boorne is now the only
one learning oil-painting with me. K. Fox does a little at
  COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 13

fruit in watercolours. Joseph West, a younger brother of
' Tuffins,' learns painting with Moore. He is a clever little
chap with his hands-- draws animals beautifully."

   The Joseph West here referred to is the well-known

artist J. Walter West, R.W.S., who in later years painted a

portait of Silvanus P. Thompson in academic robes.
   Besides his taste for painting, the young master was

becoming very much interested in the study of music. Owing
to the objection to that art which was still maintained in
those days by many Quakers, the subject was not taught in

any of their schools. At home the young Thompsons had
no piano, and it was not until Silvanus rebelled against thia

prejudice that the opposition of the parents was gradually
broken down. Brought up almost under the shadow of
one of the most glorious cathedrals in England, and taught
to understand and love its splendid architecture, it would
have been strange if Silvanus had not also learnt to love the
magnificent music of York Minster. He often attended
Evensong, though his doing so was not looked upon with
favour by the authorities of the school. As soon as he had
saved up some money he bought a second-hand piano, and
taught himself to read music and play accompaniments,
though he never achieved any technical mastery over
the instrument. He also learned to sing, and had a pleasant
baritone voice which he produced well.

   During these years the Temperance Question was much
discussed and promoted among the Members of the Society
of Friends in York, Joseph Rowntree being one of the
prominent advocates of the movement.

    Silvanus was attracted by the work of the Good Templars,
and for a time his absorption in it was very great. He
became a member, not only of the Local Lodge, but of the

District Lodge, and later of the Grand Lodge. In 1873 he

was doing much writing for them, and with his usual keen
ness to get at the beginnings of a movement or an invention,
he studied very fully the whole history of the rise of the
Good Templars in America, and collaborated in writing a
book on it which was published in 1873.
14 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   Meantime, also, he was working for his B.Sc. degree of
London University, the preliminary examination for which

he passed while still teaching.
   But the monotony of work in a small school, then badly

equipped for teaching science, became very irksome to
Thompson, and only the desire to be of assistance to hia

father kept him in this position. Silvanus Thompson
senior was at that time suffering in health from the result of

a railway accident in which his head had been injured, and
it was with a great effort that he managed to continue hia

work until 1874, when he retired.
   About this time the death of John Ford, who left most

of his property to Silvanus and his      "wibfee,enwmhoorehathdandasiolyn
visited him in his declining years, and

and daughter to me," made financial matters rather easier

for the family. The following year, too, John Tatham of

Settle died at the age of eighty-three, leaving a widow and

two daughters, Bridget Thompson, and Hannah Maria,

who continued to live in the old family home with her

stepmother.

  In the long summer vacation of 1874 Silvanus junior

went for his first visit to the Continent. During his journey

he kept a journal letter for the benefit of his invalid father,
which is full of delightful details of what he saw, and his

many amusing experiences.
   Starting on June 17th, he sailed from Hull to Antwerp,

then journeyed via Brussels to Basle, visiting Luxembourg

and Metz en route. From Basle he travelled mostly on

foot through the Juras, carrying a knapsack and sketching
materials. He found the Swiss German of the peasants
in those days very difficult to understand, and several times

was misdirected when inquiring his way from village to
village. But his excellent French generally helped him
along whenever that tongue was understood.

   During his tour of nearly six weeks he made dozens of

sketches, of which perhaps the most charming is one of the
little walled town of Laufen, which he came to on first leaving

Basle. He wrote from there :

  I" Altogether enjoy the oddity of the place extremely.
COLLEGE LJFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 16

IIt is now seven o'clock, and am now going out for a walk
Iin the                                 will and must make a

sketch                                 departing. It is most
         fields (Isaac like) at even.
         of this main street before

wondrous."

                                       *

   While commenting on the strangeness of all around him,*
he writes :

I" One thing seems utterly unchanged ; and that is human
nature.  find people polite and attentive as a rule, when
one is polite and pleasant to them. The French are of

Icourse superficially polite always. The politest person
have come across was the most hideously ugly Frenchman
you can imagine, at the Luxembourg Station at Brussels.
I IExcept in these external things and in general national

characteristics that have not yet learned, find that

physiognomy is really a wonderfully true guide. A huge
IPrussian official at Mulhausen had a big kindly face, and on

making some inquiries of him, found him as gentle as a

lamb and as polite and obliging as the most exquisite
Parisian could be."

   In this passage we see revealed the secret of the great

success of Silvanus Thompson in his subsequent inter
national relationships. A few weeks later the young
traveller wrote, with a great glee, that he had been mistaken

for a Frenchman.
   His first view of the High Alps, where he was so often

in later years accustomed to revel in the glory of glacier
and snow peak, was obtained from the Weissenstein.

                     ^

" Ah , what was that ? What is that sharp unearthly streak
It Iof light that shoots up clear above the clouds into the blue ?
is the Jungfrau -- and now  see them -- there they are,
clear out above the white piles of cumulus-- the Aletsch
Horn, the Monch, the Eiger -- in fact the whole range of the
Oberland--and then further to the South the peaks of some
unknown heights, the sharp flat top of Monte Rosa, and

Ithen the Matterhorn. Going over the prospect again,

Ijotted down a hasty outline of the peaks. Then took a
final gaze upon those ethereal crests of unimaginable pearl,
16 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Iand turned to descend. Do you ask me why did not paint
Ithem ? You might as well ask me why do not paint the

eun shining in all his brilliancy. Both are alike utterly

una"pWpreolal,choanbele. of the dreams of my life has been at last
fulfilled. The snow peaks of the Alps are stamped into
my mind for ever. After this has been permitted, who can
tell  what other dreams               not
the   unknown hereafter        m" ay       have  their  realisation  in

                            ?

   Returning to York refreshed, he plunged into his work of
teaching, experimenting, studying, with a renewed zest,
but at the end of the year he decided that he must leave

the school and go to London for further help if he wished
to take honours in chemistry, as he aspired to do, in his
examination for the B.Sc. degree.

During several of his shorter holidays previous to this

time, Silvanus had paid visits to some of his uncles and

aunts on his father's side, who lived at Liverpool and Birken-

head. Here he found a delightful circle of cousins, rather

older than himself, but many of them greatly interested in

science, art, and music, who gladly welcomed him as a sharer
in some of their lively reunions.

Two of them, William Phillips and Isaac C. Thompson,

had with some other friends started a magazine entitled

Bachelor's Papers for the discussion of scientific and other

problems, and they persuaded Silvanus to contribute to this.
IgHStryiesssrtseaamnrotficfoolfterhWseaewiTgfehehrewetsoreamynnodtointfMtlheeNsda,astu"uarrTneasdhle"StiheSneliexntcwtthiooanppS,pa"earntrsse",en,t"O"lyuT"rhedTNihePaedrteiosPoenrunaottl.
          a"ndRel"igTiohne                        "The Poems of
Chaos"                      Proposed Reform,"
Morris,"                    and Science." He     had then already

in the early seventies achieved a certain distinction of

literary style, and his arguments on scientific questions
were put with great clarity and conciseness.

The end of the summer term 1875 saw the severance of

his connexion with Bootham School, where he had spent so

many years.
   During the vacation he took the post of holiday tutor
  COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 17

to the sons of Richard Fry of Bristol, which brought him

into touch with many influential Quakers in that part of
the country, a circumstance which proved very useful
about a year later.

   On the result of his Intermediate Science Examination,
Silvanus had gained a bursary at the Royal School of
Mines, South Kensington. He therefore decided to take
up Chemistry and Physics there, in preparation for his final

examination. Owing, however, to some red-tape regulations
about subjects of study with which he was unwilling to
comply, he was not able to make full use of his bursary,
so during his stay in London he had to exercise the most

rigid economy.

   In October he took rooms at 83, Robert Street, South

Kensington, sharing his sitting-room with another Quaker
student, Ernest Westlake of Southampton. He began
work at once in the laboratories of the Royal School of
Mines at South Kensington. The Professor of Chemistry
at that time was Edward Frankland, F.R.S. (afterwards
Sir Edward), and Thompson at once attracted his attention.
The following letter describes his first impressions of the

novel surroundings :

                                              " Saturday afternoon,

I"                                            "October 19th, 1875.

MY  DEAR FATHER,

    " You will have            wished,    don't doubt, to have heard
Ia little more concerning my occupations than as yet have
Iwr"ittNeonw. that
                    am fairly settled to work, and with the
extra work of my approaching Exam., it is difficult to find

a time to write letters except late at night ; and then those
Ican"nWotesgtolauknetilanthde
                             next day.    at  8 a.m. punctually.     By
                               breakfast
Ihalf-past nine the laboratories are open, and so go early

thr"eeThdeaysotahewr eetkh.ree days, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays, it is not worth while to go early, as Frankland
begins to lecture at 10, and it is too much trouble to get
things out for half an hour or rather less, and then lock

2
18 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

them up while one goes down to the Lecture Room five
stories below, down 103 steps. As soon as the lecture is
Iover the Laboratory work begins. As yet have been
Idoing only simple analysis. . . . The more              see of the
I Istudents the less like most of them.
                                             am a little older

Ithan the average, but many of them are quite oldish men
(mostly the teachers in training).           go at one p.m. to
Professor Guthrie's Lectures (six stories below) on Physics --
at first on Hydrostatics and Pneumatics, but now just
            Sound. He lectures every
beginning  ponderous Scotchman, and          day except   Saturday.
He is a                                       puts in '  of course '

about thirty times each Lecture. Frankland is a much
neater and tidier lecturer. His experimental illustrations

Iare"all most excellent.  up  the  idea  of  University  College  at
        have quite given
Itpresent.  is so far, and the lecture times are so awkward
Ithat while am paying so high a fee for the Laboratories
it will be worth my while to devote my time pretty exclu
Isively to Chemistry at present. When the Exam, is over
   hope to get a little painting done. Now good-bye for the

present.      I" am, thy ever affectionate son,

                                    "S. P. THOMPSON."

   One of those with whom he made acquaintance during his
first term was Mr. Raphael Meldola, then working under
Mr. Lockyer (afterwards Sir Norman) at solar and spectrum

photography. In November he writes :

I" Meantime,  mean to make the best use in the present
of the chances of the hour. Mr. Meldola gives me freely the
Iwelcome to slip in and out of his place during the next few
days.      shall learn something practically of the rare arts
of solar and spectrum photography, and of the graphic
methods by which the photographs are reduced to scale

on to the accurate charts now being constructed."

  In a month's time Professor Frankland had recognised

the gifts of young Thompson, and told him that he ought
to aim at the highest walks of the profession, and look out
for a Professorship in a few years' time. Advising him to
attend the Lectures at the Royal Institution, he promised
  COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 19

him tickets for the Friday evenings, when the session began

after Christmas.

  In a letter dated December 10th Thompson writes :

  "I" MY. DEAK FATHER,

           Ihave just come in from the Royal Astronomical

Society, to which was admitted a Fellow this evening.
Fellows have not only to be elected ' but ' admitted ' in
Iformal style.  didn't get admitted last month, because
I wanted to wait to see how the operation looked. At a
certain stage of the business the Secretary announced
that the present is the time for receiving newly-elected

Fellows. Thereupon the new Fellow rose from his seat

amongst the mass of persons facing the President, walked
demurely up the dais, signed his name in a big roll-book,
with all the customary embellishments of flourish, and was
handed over to the President, Adams of Cambridge, of
Neptune-discovery renown, who grasped my hand as
gingerly as if it had been a dead fish, and calmly mumbled,

I' Mr. Thompson, in the name of the Royal Astronomical

Society, admit you a Fellow1 thereof.' And the newly-
admitted Fellow returned to his place."

    When the lists of the B.Sc. examination came out,

Silvanus found himself bracketted first in Honours.

    Owing to his own and his father's position at Bootham
School, he had many introductions to members of the
Society of Friends in London. Attending one of their
largest meetings, situated in St. Martin's Lane, and known
as Westminster Meeting, he was very soon a welcome guest
in many of their homes. Alfred W. Bennett, a noted botanist
and lecturer at University and Bedford Colleges, made
his home a centre for students of the Quaker faith. One of
the Tatham cousins also, daughter of Joseph Tatham of

Leeds, who was the wife of J. Bottomley Firth, M.P., lived

in South Kensington, not far from Robert Street. Sir

   1 Thompson was elected because " he was a most promising student to
become an astronomer, and a very suitable man to join the Society.
At that time the claims of candidates were scrutinised." As to his claims
eee p. 8. He had also, whilst a master at Bootham, given a special course
of lectures on astronomy at one of the other boys' schools in York.
20 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Jonathan Hutchinson the surgeon, Sir Edward Fry the judge,
and John Bright, also attended the same meeting.

   Almost every Sunday was spent in some hospitable
Friend's home, and he became a member of a small literary
and artistic circle called the Friends' Portfolio Society, to
which he belonged to the end of his life, frequently attending
the monthly gatherings.

   Through the interest of Professor Guthrie he had been

attending some of the meetings of the Physical Society,
and about the middle of December he was elected a member.1

   The Society was then comparatively new, but> rapidly
increasing in popularity. - Its president that year was
Dr. John Hall Gladstone, F.R.S., Professor at the Royal
Institution, and a renowned chemist. Unlike so many of

his contemporaries he was a man of deep Christian faith,

and young Thompson found in his home a most congenial

   1 Silvanus Thompson was in later years President of the Physical
Society for two successive years, 1901-2. In his first presidential address

he"gOavuer  the following account   of the Society's  inception and purpose :
            Society was originated   by teachers of   physics at the instigation

of the late Professor Guthrie, our founder, whose memory many of us

cherish with a personal regard and affection that goes far beyond the

high esteem in which his name is deservedly held for the good work which

he did as an experimental investigator of great originality. From its

inception the Society has been actively supported by the teachers of

Physics in the Schools and Colleges of London, as well as by the Professors

of Physics in the Universities and University Colleges of the United

Kingdom, and by the Lecturers in Physics of the great Public Schools.

While we would all acknowledge our great indebtedness as a Society, and

in the pursuit of Physics generally, to those non-professional members

who have contributed so much to the advancement of science, and who in

Great Britain have ever held so striking a position as scientific pioneers,

there is a special sense in which we may appeal to all teachers of Physics,

from the most elementary to the most advanced, to make use of the

Physical Society, and to give it their active support. It was mainly in

the interests of teachers and students that the Physical Society originally

undertook the publication of the Abstracts, the purpose of which was to

keep English students of physics informed of the latest steps in scientific

advance wherever published. The teachers of Physics throughout the

country, by coming into membership in the Physical Society, will find in

its meetings, its discussions, its Journal of Proceedings, and in Science

Abstracts, a real help in following the progress of research, and may derive
many suggestions of the most direct service to them, both in their daily

work in the lecture-room and the laboratory, and in any original investiga

tion in which they may be engaged."
  COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 21

atmosphere. He frequently visited there on Sunday after
noons, and sometimes joined a Bible class of young men,
which Dr. Gladstone taught in his own house.

   As soon as the Royal Institution opened for the session,
Thompson hastened back from his Christmas visit to York,
where there had been a happy family reunion. He attended
diligently Tyndall's course of Lectures on Electricity, and
in a letter to his mother of January 6th, 1 876, he says :

  I" Tuesday brought Lectures and Classes ' as usual,' except

that had to run away in the middle of Guthrie's discourse
on Electricity to be in time to hear that by Tyndall, who,
very curiously, was on precisely the same part, and per
formed the very same experiments : -- but oh ! with such a
difference. There is a dash and an ease about Tyndall's
speaking and manipulating."

Again he writes :

I" Tyndall's Lectures concluded last Saturday.                have

made very full notes and embellished them with about

eighty scribbles of apparatus, experiments, and portraits.

They were, as examples of popularized science, admirable ;
Ithe illustrations brought forward being most excellently
adapted to teach the subject.      have learnt a good deal
of the method and ' technic ' of lecturing by them, and have
had the opportunity of seeing, what we do not get at all in
Guthrie, and very little in Frankland, the swing, the ease,
the dash, that makes all the difference between the easy and

the tedious lecturer."

   A few   days later   he went    toHuhxelaery,an"oUthpeorn  of the famous
           of the day,  professor                              the Compara
lecturers

tive Anatomy of the Lower Vertebrata." He writes :

  I" May never hear an uglier man discourse worse upon

as unpromising a topic. The flow of language was perfect,
and the whole manner most graphic, perspicuous, and
simple. As a speaker he beats Tyndall hollow."

   He also attended Dr. Gladstone's Lectures, chiefly on the
past history of chemistry, which he greatly enjoyed. The
22 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

historical side of Science always appealed to him, and in
later years he spared no pains to trace its obscure origins,
his good linguistic equipment being invaluable for this

purpose.

   On January 21st he wrote :

    I" To-morrow morning go to Dr. Guthrie's room in the
Physical Laboratory, where we are going to give the day
to investigations upon a new form of
discovered (by Dr. Beard of Baltimore               eleItctrwicililtybelavteerlyy
                                                    ?).

                                                                                         :
pleasant to be associated with Dr. Guthrie in this work.
What will lead to scarcely can tell yet."
A                  I
     it               I
       few days later he wrote to his eldest sister Maria
    I
   " Monday night, and all my spare time, has been given to

the investigations that am assisting Professor Guthrie
with. shall be at work with him to-morrow, and probably
all Saturday. We cannot yet say that much result has
followed our experiments upon the new electrical force, but
we hope to get on a good stage on Saturday morning."

To his father on February 4th                  :

    " My work with Dr. Guthrie came to a temporary lull onI

Saturday afternoon last, when, having completed for the
time the investigations in hand,
                                                    communicated the

substance of them to the Physical Society in a paper which
you will find briefly reported in this week's Athenceum.
                                             discussion about the new mani
We had     a avfteerrywainrdtesr.estiIntg  is   originally an American dis
festation

covery, but the men over there fancy to be a new force,
while our experiments go to show that          it it   simply a variety

                                                   is

of induced electricity."

    This was the first published research of Silvanus P.

T"hOomn pssoomne,   and was afterwards reprinted       under the title,
                   Phenomena of Induced Electric       Sparks " in the

Philosophical Magazine, September 1876, and the Proceedings

of  the Physical Society, vol. ii.

    Thompson had carried out a series of experiments in

which he obtained sparks from conductors placed near the
>3J
o

tf

lia i-,

a Zli

o    S
Ei
     £2

g

J

EH
 M
    COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 23

coil of an electromagnet at the moment of interruption of
the current in the coil. He was trying to account for the

production of these sparks in terms of the already known
laws of electricity, not ready to accept the hypothesis of
a new force if an old one would suffice. The apparatus was

several times altered in design to give increasingly powerful
sparks, such as could be discharged through vacuum tubes,
and the discharge observed in a rotating mirror, when its

Italternating character and irregularities became apparent.

     was established that the charges on the conductor

were obtained on interrupting the current only in circuits
in which there was an air gap, however short. Thompson

believed that he could account for the momentary charge
in the conductor as being induced by the temporary

accumulation of electricity which was necessary to produce

sufficient electromotive force to break down the resistance

of this gap.
   A week later he wrote :

    I" Dr. G. has left me now almost alone ; he was with me
about five minutes on Saturday in fact.                                     am glad to say
Ithat further investigations are very satisfactory, and that
   have now been able to frame a theory that will account
for the entire series of phenomena."

    He communicated this to the Physical Society about a

month later.
    It was about this time that Mr. William Crookes (afterwards
                                                                                                  the Royal
Sir William Crookes, O.M.,                                                  and President     of  Mechanical
AShiocsctiioeratnyd)ioofmgLeaitvgeehrst,h"is"atmmtaehrmeveoRlrloaobyulasel    lecture on the
                                                                                               "

                                                                            Institution. He then showed

                                                                            little mills of pith and glass,

which revolve by the action of light alone, in a perfect

vacuum." So Silvanus, who was present at the lecture,
taking numerous notes, described them. Shortly after

he  went  as a visitor  to  a meeting of                                    thaendRo"yahladSocaiecthya, twwheitrhe
he  was   introduced    to  Mr. Crookes,

him on radiometers."

   The Friends of Westminster Meeting were in the habit
of arranging social gatherings during the winter at which
24 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

lectures were given. That year they had already had two
by Alfred W. Bennett and by Sir Edward Fry, and Silvanus

Thompson was  asked to  ogfive"  them one  on a scientific subject.
He chose the  subject            Comets :  their Purpose in the

Universe in the Light of Recent Research," showed many

diagrams, and used various illustrations, including some of

the newly discovered radiometers. In his letter describing

this to his father he writes, :

I"Monday was a hard day with me. After Dr.' Frank-
I Iland's lecture was working all day with the mercurial
air-pump exhausting a Radiometer had devised.  got
special leave to stop, and went on till half-past nine at
night, when the exhaustion was fairly completed -- when- to
my great annoyance, in sealing off the vacuous tube with

the blowpipe, the glass cracked and spoilt the day's work,

Ibesides precluding the possibility of having the thing to

illustrate my lecture as had hoped."

   Next day, however, he managed to borrow two of the
novel instruments from a scientific shop in the Strand.

   He wrote :

I" Happily had, for the sake of brevity, written out in
complete pithy sentences the introduction, which dealt
with the general constitution of the Universe and the

I Iplaces therein occupied by stars and planets ; and also
   had a similar written conclusion. These found a gieat
help, as they certainly saved time. My audience listened as
Ithough they would eat me, especially during my remarks
on the reign of law.    don't mean they looked ferocious,
but so perfectly attentive."

   Among the audience was a young girl who had just left
school, who was later to become the wife of the lecturer.

She was the eldest daughter of James Henderson, a member
of the congregation with whom young Thompson had
already become acquainted. She was interested in Science,

and had already heard Huxley, Spottiswoode, and other
good lecturers, but she much appreciated the powers of the
young lecturer, and especially admired the beautiful perora
tion with which he closed.
           COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 25

           After Easter he wrote :

           I I"MY"
                 DEAR     FATHER,          at  5  p.m.,     in  which  said something
                   sent   off a card

         about writing concerning a post now vacant. There is a
                                                                                   at   Bristol
         Inew University College           now    labsetinsgumemstearb.lishIetd  will  open in
                                           deal
         of which heard a good
        IOctober, and they have been advertising for a Professor of
        Chemistry.        saw the advertisements about a fortnight

        ago, but felt inclined to pass the matter by as rather beyond

         Imy"
           sphere at      present.         ago Mr.       Lodge,   Prof. G. C. Foster's
           However,       a few days

        right-hand man, with whom was having some chat, said :                                   . -a*--

        '  W"hAyftdeornt'thiynokuinggo  in for Bristol, it's the very place for you.'
                                        the matter over, we agreed that, clearly,
        Inothing could be done without consulting Dr. Frankland.

        Accordingly this morning waited upon the doctor, and
        ask"edHehitsoldopmineionth. at one other gentleman had been to him
on a similar errand, and he would give me the counsel he gave

I Ihim, to wait and try to find out who was intending to apply.

  could not gather, though suspected it from his manner,
that he had someone in the corner of his mind.

              Then he spoke of his satisfaction at the way had been
        working since taking a place there, and his belief that
        should, when a little better known in the chemical world,
II                                                                     II
    '.'I                                                                       II
        have no difficulty in taking good place, as he thought
        had capabilities for the work of the best posts.a                              cannot
                                                               a
        report all, but left the doctor with a respect for him,
                          I

                                    ;
        certainly heightened by the manner in which he had
        expressed himself and certainly gratified at the cordialI
        way in which he had spoken of his appreciation of my work.

          am quite sure that shall have his hearty good will in the
        future whenever have to apply to him for testimonials,
                          I

        wh"ethehradthis   matter come to nought                 or no.           last     for
                 I        very hard day's work                  on Saturday            ;
                       a
        instead of going to see the Queen drive up to the Exhibition,
           was putting together apparatus for my final discourse to

        the Physical Society upon the newly investigated electric
                        have got to the end of the matter, and won my
        sparks.
        spurs in Physics. Prof. Adams of Cambridge, and his
           Prof. Adams    ofPKroifnegss'sorsCo--lleaglseo,      were present -- and about
son,        dozen other                                              lot of miscellaneous
two

        members."
26 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

He decided to apply for the chemical post at Bristol,

and began collecting testimonials from the scientific men

whom he had met, and who appreciated the work he

was doing. He had already received some good ones when

another opportunity came to him to show his powers of

lecturing, as he described to his father :

  I" was met with an urgent message from Dr. Guthrie.
I went to him and found him. He told me he had just been
Itelling Major Festing that would give a twenty minutes
Itdiscourse on Radiometers at the Exhibition ! My astonish
ment may be imagined.  appeared that someone was
advertised to explain the instruments at 1.30 p.m., and
could not come. Major Festing had come in a hurry to Dr.
IGuthrie, who had forthwith assumed that
                                              could,   would,
should perform the work. It was now 1.15      p.m.
Iquarter of an hour.                                   Just a

                      rushed over. Some of the people
in authority got the various apparatus out of the cases.
IPeople were dropping into the Conference Room in anticipa

tion. Half-past struck. Then marched into the room with
IMajor Festing, who briefly introduced me to the audience.

Right opposite me the only man of the company recog
Inised was Father Perry, the celebrated astronomer of
Stonyhurst.   am told there were about eighty people

present, including Professor James Thomson of Belfast
(brother of Sir William). My discourse of twenty minutes

Iwas listened to with great attention, and the experiments

were in every way successful. Then rushed back to the
Museum to swallow a mouthful of lunch, and prepare for the
Physical Society's Meeting, which was well attended and
              My
interesting.        description of the Hepworth Clock  (electric)
lasted just   five   minutes --the discussion which    followed

Inearly ten. Major Festing came up and wanted to know

whether would consent to repeat my discourse on Radio
meters on Monday and Tuesday next at the same hour.
I Iconsidered whether

Iand finally consented.
                    would and could   repeat  the discourse,
                                        knew  something of
                    It is lucky that
these new instruments and their history ; and of course
I Ithis is a good advertisement of oneself without much labour.

So on this ground accepted his offer. only wish he would
ask me to give an evening lecture of an hour's duration on
' Induced Electricity ' to astonish the natives."

About the middle of June, by the advice of some of his
COLLEGE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC TRAINING 27

Bristol friends, he went down there and visited several of

the Members of the Council of the New University. Among

them was Dr. Percival of Clifton  College,  who,  as  he  wrote,
" received us courteously."

  "I am a little afraid of Dr. Percival, as he looks the kind

of ma-n who is able to look you through, and reckon you up
at a glance. His questions were straight to the point, but

Ifew. When he asked me if had taken honours at my
Idegrees, it was a comfort to say that was first in honours
Iat the B.Sc. As he is a great friend of Edward Fry's,

however, do not dread him much, as Edward Fry has

(like Dr. Frankland) given me his card and permission to
use his name as a reference in respect of general culture and
scientific standing."

   Thompson did not succeed in obtaining the appointment
of Professor of Chemistry at Bristol, which went to Dr.
Letts of Belfast. Almost immediately after, however, the
Council of the College advertised for a Lecturer in Physics,
and he, at once applying for that, was duly appointed to

the post.
                   CHAPTER III

       LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL AND EARLY RESEARCHES

 WHILE awaiting the news of the result of his application
for the Bristol post, Thompson decided that in preparation
for it he would carry out a plan, already made some weeks
before, to visit the University of Heidelberg. One of
his former colleagues of Bootham School, Alfred Kemp
Brown, had proceeded for further study to that University,
and correspondence with him had suggested to Thompson
the idea of spending a summer vacation there. He wished
to watch the working of the laboratories of the University
and also to perfect his knowledge of German.

    He spent the first part of his time abroad, going leisurely
up the Rhine, for he was very fatigued by his strenuous
year's work. Again he wrote journal letters home describing
what he saw and learned on his travels. This time the
pages were illustrated by clever little pen and ink sketches.
On reaching Bonn he visited Doctor Geissler, the maker of
the celebrated Geissler 's tubes, and of Radiometers of various
kinds. He found him very ready to explain everything,
and was able to acquire some of the newest appliances for
illustrating his future lectures. He also saw the University
and was taken round the Chemical Laboratory, where he
reported that he found nothing new, worthy of remark.

   He stayed at several of the little places on the Rhine --
Rolandseck, Bacharach, Boppard --enjoying the novelty of

being among people of such different manners and customs,
which he described with many humorous touches.

   On arriving finally at Heidelberg he took lodgings in a
pension, and settled down to attend every day the lectures
of the Chemical and Physical Professors.

                                                                      28
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 29

   After receiving his first letters from England he sent the
following news to his former master, Professor Guthrie, P.R.S.

I"                                                     " HEID"ELJuBlEyRG2,9th, 1876.
DEAR"  PROFESSOR GUTHRIE,                      and hasten to tell you, that
          have learned to-day,
the Council of the University College, Bristol, have decided
I Ithe Lectureship in Physics, and that the election has fallen
upon myself.  feel that cannot allow a day to pass
without sending you this news, together with my most
cordial thanks to you for the assistance you have rendered
me in obtaining this post -- assistance without which my
candidature would have been one with little prospect of
Isuccess.  shall have cause to thank you, not indeed for
Ithis alone, but for the unvarying kindness have experienced
at your hands, and for the many ways in which you have
Iass"istehdopmeeoinnMmoyndsatuydtieos.place in the hands of Herr Geheim-
rath Bunsen, the letter of introduction you have so kindly
furnished me with."

   Silvanus was delighted with the free and unconventional
life at Heidelberg, and with the picturesqueness of the old
town. He wrote to his father :

" Bunsen the chemist is a well-known man, and is worth
hea" riLnegc. turLee-rtoomme,
                               describe  one   of his discourses.   covered
                               a stuffy  hole  with high table all
over with bottles, flasks, and glasses-- semicircular rows of

forms to accommodate about ninety students rising opposite,

and a great noise occasionally coming up from the street

out"siPdue.nctually at 9 o'clock by the little Dutch timepiece
Iclacketty-clack-ing away against the wall enter. There
Iare two students present.               take a seat and look round.

Presently an officious looking young man brings in three very
respectable and sedate gentlemen, evidently not English

men, and very much sunburnt. One of them has a long
grey beard, and another a beard of black, grizzled, and
they take seats in the front row. The officious young man
bows deeply thrice and retires. Six minutes past, and
there are two more students. Then a distant bell rings,
and a troop of thirty more pour in through the door and
30 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

scramble to their seats, two or three of them smoking cigar

ends. Nine minutes past the officious-looking young man

reappears ; looks at the clock ; vanishes. A few more

students come dropping in, and each as he comes in is

greeted with a shuffling of the feet and a few gentle hisses.
Fourteen minutes past nine and a farmer-like looking man

with a dirty collar, slovenly coat, untidy hair, and a much
wrinkled but benevolent face, slouches in at the doorway,
and steps behind the table. Everybody rises about six
inches from his seat to acknowledge the bow of the Lecturer,

and"  there is  partial noisy  applause.  Lecturer,  for this is
      Without    a moment's    delay the
Professor Bunsen --Herr Geheimrath Bunsen --begins his
discourse in an off-hand way without any preliminary

words. Meantime the officious young man crawls behind

the Professor and crosses to the other side of the room,

when he proceeds to put back the hand of the clock to ten
minutes past the hour. The discourse proceeds, interrupted
only by the shuffling and hissing that salute a late-coming
student. The style is without either affectation or dignity ;
the discourse never stopping for want of a word, and never
rising beyond the commonplaces of chemical description,
not even ceasing when a little liquid has to be poured into a
glass, or a specimen of an ore taken from its place on the

table, and handed, via the officious young man, to the nearest

student on the front row. All goes on without a hitch or
hindrance until the clock strikes ten solemn and almost
inaudible strokes. With a deep bow the Professor finishes
his discourse and retires through the door. And then we
learn that the Emperor of Brazil, he of the long grey beard,

was the stranger present."

   With Professor Quincke, whose courses on physics
Thompson attended, he formed a lifelong friendship which
was afterwards frequently renewed at various international
gatherings. In later years Geheimrath von Quincke visited
London on several occasions ; he was a most genial man,

and much liked by some of his English colleagues.
   The Summer Semester at Heidelberg was all too soon

over, and Silvanus returned to England in time to attend
the British Association for the Advancement of Science held

that year at Glasgow. Very soon after he went to Bristol,
where he found comfortable rooms at St. Michael's Terrace,
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 31

Gotham, and began to get ready for the Session at Bristol

University College.

The Council for the University College had not waited

for a building to be erected, but had started the classes in

temporary premises consisting of some dismal old houses

in Park Row. To the Lecturer in Physics was allotted a

damp cellar as a store-room for his apparatus, and two

rooms on the second floor as lecture-room and laboratory.

Professors and students of modern times would be horrified

at the inconveniences which had to be put up with.

The first few letters which he wrote to his father give such

an excellent picture of the beginning of his work, and of his

introduction to Clifton society, that it will be best to quote

from them with but few omissions.

His father had apparently been warning him. that he had

been spending money rather freely, and he justifies himself

on spending only what was absolutely necessary for his

work, certain pieces of apparatus, etc.

  I" The other source of expenditure has been books. While

in Heidelberg spent nearly £2 on French and German
Ibooks, and got some most helpful ones for my work here.

On my return to London got some more, including
Ganot's Physics, Professor Tait's excellent new book,

Recent Advances, two books on Physical Measurements

Iand a book on higher Mathematics at which am taking
Idaily doses. Since coming here have got several books.
I had purposed, a little while ago, getting Guillemin's two
beautiful volumes the Forces Physiques and the Applications
Ide Physique, but they cost 20s. each, and so while was in
I ILondon made up my mind not to buy them.      took also
at Kensington a last fond look at Helmholtz's splendid
Iwork on the Sensations of Tone, a perfectly wonderful book

of which there read a good deal in the spring. Books are
expensive, and there is such a thing as knowing where to

Isto"p. finished yesterday reading another interesting book
Ithat have got lately -- Balfour Stewart on the Conservation
of Energy, quite a readable book, and one teeming with the

Ilatest information. will bring or send it home some time,
I Ias "should like you to see it.
         am finding ' reviewing '  profitable.  The Friend has
32 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

added to my Library. The Unseen Universe, Assyrian

Discoveries, Chaldean Account of Genesis, Abbott's Sermons,
and lastly a thick new volume of Dr. Carpenter's Mental

IPhy"siologgrye.atly prize this connexion, as reviewing is not
Ilaborious work.    am hoping to get some further work of
this kind through my friend Conrad W. Cooke (son of

ICooke, R.A.) of London, and who ' knows everybody,' and

is one of the nicest and kindest fellows ever came across.
I. . . Yesterday at 2.30 was the conference of the Professors

and Lecturers upon their mutual arrangements, so had to
turn out, hoping to be back in an hour to finish writing to

you. Our conference lasted till 6 p.m. ! and we have to
Imeet again to-morrow. My lecture-room looks very nice,
but its arrangements are far from complete.                 am sorry
Ito say the students are only to have chairs --not regular
benches and desks.                  did my best to show the unwisdom

Iof"thishanvoetiobne, enbuttwiicne  vain.      Lodge,  and  find a con
                                    to Gotham
tinued welcome there. Mr. Camps is getting to look old--
more noticeably somehow than before. The young ladies
are very busy over the approaching Musical Festival in
Iwhich they are to sing in the choir. Halle's band is coming
down, and a lot of noted singers.              shall be in the serener

...atmosphere of acoustical apparatus, however, when the
IFestival is in progress.           am to dine with Dr. Percival
Iat Clifton College on Tuesday next, and on Thursday am
to meet a number of Bristol worthies and people concerned
in the College at Mr. Carpenter's. When we get to work,
too much of these dinner parties won't do. . . . My

landlady is a great success, and looks after me admirably
Iin every way.  am very well pleased with the accommoda
Ition have here : rooms airy and commodious, and nothing
Iif not clean. No particular prospect either way ; but
then  didn't come to Bristol for the sake of the

sce"nHerays. t thou not got a copy of the Thompson Pedigree as
I Ifar as known ? do not think ever saw it, but should
Ivery much like to do so.           suppose it was never printed.
I"Dear love to mother and thyself.                     do hope you will
come to Bristol before Christmas, it would be so nice to
have you here f"orEvaelrittyleouwr hailfefe. ctionate son,
                                            "S. P. THOMPSON."
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 33

I"      MY"                                         " October 7«A, 1876.
             DEAR FATHER,         to  the  College to work at my
             Before go down
I I Iapparatus there, must write a few lines, or else fear
Ishall get nothing done to-day. My lecture-room (which
Ishare with the Mathematics) is ready at last, and have
got already full cupboards, though there yet remains a heap
of things to unpack.
                                                         at 11 o'clock.
   "My first Lecture will be on Wednesday
                                                         aIndhaIvehaavefatior
Evening lectures don't begin until the 16th,
give an hour on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
promise of attendance. Sundry young ladies for the morning

course, and several clever young fellows'. Amongst them a
IRichardson of Newcastle, a nephew of Dr. Tuke, who is here
to study with Dr. Letts.          have also some men who have

taken the Whitworth Scholarships, and one of them has been

through a Mathematical and Chemical course at Owens.

Ta"ntScmhoielaurxs.hip Examinations are over, the robes came
just in time. Thanks very many for them. The hood,
Iline"d  with white silk a la convocation,
          have not yet unpacked the         looks very   nice.
                                            Electrical   machines,

Ibecause my store-room in the basement is not yet ready,

and as it is rather damp, have not been sorry to wait till
Iit     a little
   i"s    dined   dryer.      at Clifton College, the whole staff
                  on Tuesday
Ibeing invited to meet the Mayor of Bristol. We had a
gorgeous set-out and a stately dinner.                   sat next to Miss

Catherine Winkworth, the authoress of many hymns, Lyra
Germanica, translated from the German. After the dinner
we adjourned to the lesser Colston Hall, where there was a

Iprize-giving by the Mayor and Dean, of the South Kensington
prizes to evening classes.    J.  On Wednesday           dined simpliciter
(at 6 p.m.) with Francis                                  of the Council),
                                   Fry ' (a Member
and we looked at a lot of his apparatus afterwards, and had

a "pleTahsuarnstdatyimeevteonginegtherw. as yet another  dinner--people
                                                         begins --at Mr.
wanted to get them over before College
ICarpenter's pretty little villa near the Downs.         was the
Ionly non-Bristolian -- evidently meant to be the lion of the

evening --to accomplish which unexpected part put forth
my endeavours, and found the company agreeable and
intelligent ; we had much chat and little music until about

                  1 Brother of Sir Edward Fry.

        3
34 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

11 p.m. This dinner too was ceremonious, and the table
decorated most beautifully with flowers."

   To the same :                             " October 13tA, 1876.

   I" On Sunday last walked over to Westbury and spent
Ithe afternoon with Edward Grubb, and attended with him,

in the evening, the Redland Meeting. On Monday was
Ibusy with preparations all day for my opening Lecture,
wh"ichOn  found was expected to be a set-piece.
          Tuesday morning the College opened, Mr.            Bousfield

giving a quiet ordinary mathematical lecture at 9 a.m. We
had not a grand inaugural field day --the Council, in spite
of our gentle suggestions, not seeing their way to this.

However, the opening address by Professor Rowley (on
Modern History) was understood to be the opening, and at
   1 "oW'cleochkatdhealavrgeeryst  of our lecture-rooms
1                                  interesting lecture,   was packed.
                                                         the subject
                                                                       being
chiefly a glorification of the advantages to be derived from
the study of History. Towards the close the Professor made
Ia smart attack on the popular idea of the culture to be

derived from the study of natural science, of which
instantly ' made a note.' The audience were pleased with
Ithe lecture, and was congratulated by Mrs. Percival and
I IMiss Winkworth on the rap had got.
                                                         laughed and said
I Ishould see about that. In the evening was to dine
with the Misses Winkworth. Miss Catherine Winkworth,

poetess, and active supporter of the Female Educational

Movement, is a lively and very affable lady of some five and
forty years. Her elder sister must be some years her senior.
There was also a married sister present, a Mrs. Collie, also
her husband ; Professor Blackburn of Oxford, Frank
Tuokett of Frenchay, and Dr. Beddoe, F.R.S., etc. Dinner
was ceremonious but good, and between Mrs. Collie and
I IDr."
   Beddoe had             some pleasant conversation.        end of my
   On Wednesday           morning had to re-cast the
Iaddress so as to answer Professor Rowley's remarks.
arranged also to have a few experiments. At 11 a.m. the
large lecture-room was considerably more than half full,
Iab"ouFtol9lo0wteod
                     100  being    present.  Caldicott, Mr.  Shacht,   etc.,
                          Lewis
                      by           Fry, Dr.

etc., solemnly entered the room, robed and hooded, and
Itoo"kMmyy
           place.         which                                   j
          lecture,                 timed for one hour, took just
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 35

I Isixty- three minutes to deliver, and the experiments were
very successful -- as    meant them to be.                             had little

applauses several times, and a good round at the end.
ILewis Fry and Mr. Shacht came afterwards to thank me
personally.    hear that it was thought quite a success aa

an address ; and that my answer to Rowley was at once

Icomplete and quiet. In the evening was a soiree at the

Museum, exhibited several bits of apparatus, and con
trived in the intervals to get a good deal of chat with sundry
people --Dr. Percival, Dr. Beddqe, Dr. Shingleton Smith,
Dr. Tilden [afterwards Sir William Tilden, F.R.S.]. The
affair was a great success, over 800 tickets having been

Isol"d.This morning was my second lecture, had twenty- two
Istu"deWntes                                            start work.
           present, the nucleus with which          the evening classes
          are to have an inauguration of
Iat which am to speak -- but my first evening lecture will
Ibe on Tuesday.          am quite falling steadily into the work
Iof the College, and am enjoying it thoroughly. My col
league, Mr. Bousfield,           like more and more. He has a
capital knowledge of Physics, and we have many a chat
together. We hope to do a little research together by and
      --  if we have time, that is.
Ibye"
          am astonished how much     easier     it is    to  me        to  lecture
Inow than it was at York. No doubt the number of lectures

  have heard during last year, and the utter attention of my
                                                    nTihcee --aoppnalyratuswishis
students has something to do with it.

Inow very nearly all here, and looks very
I Iwe had a little more of it.
                                     am afraid shall a little
               allotted  sum, but hope     it will       sbueccseos. sfuAl nIosthhaelrl
exceed    the  Lectures    of the present           not                 Council--
          the                               term    are                how nice
year, if

be sure of another       grant.  caTuhtieoussti--ngrieesmt arokfetdhe              or
                         most                                                      it
I should say the
Ilooked.       instantly turned upon him afraid to lose so good
a chance of working the point : -- the procuring of some
Iadditional apparatus. ' That, Mr. Thompson, must depend on
the"  results of the  present    session,' was  the rebuke             received.
      Dear love to    mother     and thyself.     How quiet            you will
be with all the girls away ! Happily you have Fan at school
Tiear, and she will be at home to-day (Saturday). My love
to her too. What is Tom thinking of doing when he leaves
Harrogate ? Won't he try to see something of the merchant
Iaspect of his business in London for a few months.
persuaded it will be very greatly to his advantage."                       am
36 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

    The two younger sons of Silvanus Thompson had both
started on what their father hoped was to be the training for
their future careers. Thomas had been learning the tea
trade, he was never interested in business, was devoted
to music and drawing, and so he did not care to take
his brother's suggestion of striking out boldly. Finally
he entered the old family business of Tatham & Sons
at Settle, where he lived for many years, spending all his
spare time over carving, drawing, or music. The youngest
son, called after his maternal grandfather John Tatham,
began to study pharmaceutical chemistry. He had been
apprenticed to a firm in Scarborough, but had a serious
attack of pneumonia during 1876, and it was not thought
wise for him to return to the bleak East Coast. The father

had to break off his indentures at considerable loss, and was

rather puzzled what to do with the boy. With the un
selfishness characteristic of him throughout life, the elder
brother offered to have him at Clifton ; the mild climate
was just what was needed, and he could help his brother
in the laboratory and with lecture preparing. The parents
were delighted with the plan, and Silvanus found much
pleasure, if also some anxiety and responsibility, in the
company of lively Jack, the spoilt boy of the family.

" MY DEAR FATHER,                            "December 1st, 1876.

      "We had been expecting to hear from you to-day,
and were quite disappointed when no letter turned up this
Imorning. However, we suppose that mother is better, or
we should have heard.            do hope she will soon be able to

get"  about  the house as usual.       with  me.     He works hard,
             is going on very well
      Jack

and enjoys the work, though the hours are long, and he
gets very tired. He is really interested in the work and
in the lectures, and is a really valuable help to me. He
Ifinds time to do a lot of drawing, too, of which am glad, as
Iit gives him occupation, while am studying at home. As
Ito anything further for him in the future, do not see any
Icle"arWceourmseu,stthloeuagveh                      my eyes
                                 have  been keeping  what he  open.
                                       the present,
                               it for                         will do,
if for no other reason that circumstances do not enable us
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 37

Ito see far ahead. Meantime will bear in mind thy sug
gestions and wishes, and, as before, keep on the watch for
opportunities. On Tuesday we ransacked the garrets of the
Museum, and found an ocean of fine apparatus. Two
glorious air pumps (one must have cost £60) in good condi
tion, but more than inch deep in dust, and quite forgotten.

Also 70 cells of Wollaston's battery. A large plate-glass
electric machine. A battery of 12 Leyden jars, each of
2£ gallon size !--and an Attwood's machine worth at least
      at the present moment, besides            a lot of lesser apparatus.
I£50"   shall have the opportunity of           using all of these things
for my Christmas Lectures, and they are literally ' a find ' ;
but there will be some red tape to go through before they
can be used for the lectures of the College Course-- if indeed
Ithey can be got at all for that. You should have seen the

figures that Jack and cut amongst the dust.

  "As to the Christmas Lectures, everything seems to
promise favourably. There are but 350 seats in the
Lecture Theatre--which is a capital room for the purpose.
J.More than 130 tickets have been already sold, already

expenses are cleared. Francis Fry is delighted with the
Iou"tlookn.ow have fifty- two students, morning and evening
Itogether. A most successful beginning.                  am beginning
Ito think seriously whether shall not try for the D.Sc.
examination next June. The thing is worth doing un
doubtedly, but it will require every spare moment, from the
time my lectures are over, until the day of the examination.

IThen there is the question in which branch shall attempt
it ?  Either                                        or
              Electricity          and Magnetism,        "Physical  Optics
and   Sound,  or Physical          Optics and Heat    1

The city of Bristol possessed a very good Museum and

Public Library, attached to which was a hall, well fitted

both for hearing lectures and seeing experiments, the seats

being arranged in tiers in a semicircle. Here by the invita

tion  of   tlheectumreasnaogning"   council of  the Museum, Thompson
gave  six                          The Forces   of Nature " adapted to a

juvenile audience.

They were a great success and much appreciated by

large audiences, the exposition was clear, and the experi

ments went well. They included the subjects of Sound,
38 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Light, Heat, and Electricity, two lectures being devoted to
the last-named.

   These lectures established his reputation as a good popular
lecturer, and he began to be in request to lecture in other
places. He consented to undertake some work under the
Gilchrist Trust, and during the next few years lectured under
their auspices in many towns in the neighbouring counties,
at Taunton, Bridgwater, Cheltenham, Weston, etc., and
he is still remembered by many hearers.

   In May of 1877, Silvanus and Bridget Thompson visited

their sons at Clifton, and were much pleased and satisfied
with their work and surroundings. This was the only time
their father was able to come south, as he became increas

ingly disabled and enfeebled by severe headaches as years
went on.

   Despite his lecture engagements, Thompson still continued
his researches in physics, and as the London Physical
Society's meetings were held at the week end, he was able
to attend many of them, bringing to them the, " fruits of his
industrious labours."

    He was also able to keep in touch with the many friends
whom he had made during his student days, and frequently

stayed till Sunday night with Dr. Gladstone and other

friends.
    On these occasions he was generally to be seen on

Sunday morning at Westminster Meeting House, where he
was welcomed by many. During his student days he had
formed a friendship with another science student who was
at University College, Walter Palmer (afterwards Sir Walter
 Palmer, M.P.), a member of the Society of Friends. He
 and Thompson kept up a correspondence for many years.

In 1877 the two went to Switzerland together during the

long vacation. So the quiet home circle at York was again
 enlivened by journal letters describing this tour. They
 went up the Rhine as Silvanus had done the previous year,
 but did not linger long. He mentions a visit to Strasbourg,
 ' ' going minutely over the laboratory of Professor Kundt,
 and being well pleased with what he saw." At Zurich they
 made a short stay to see its splendid University. He wrote :
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 39
   " This morning we paid a visit to the Physical laboratory,

also went over the Chemical laboratory in the Polytechnicum
attached to the University. There is here the most
complete and excellent Engineering school in Switzerland --
probably in the world. This we went over also, and were
immensely pleased with what we saw."

   The two young men were on climbing bent, but the
weather was very unfortunate for either that pastime or for
sketching. After walking over the two Scheideck Passes
and the Grimsel and then up to Zermatt, mostly in rain and
clouds, they crossed the Theodule into Italy under the
guidance of Peter Taugwalder, one of the three survivors of
the Whymper expedition. On the way over the Pass, the
day being a glorious one, they climbed the Little Matter-
horn. Silvanus wrote :

   " We stood upon the top feasting our eyes upon the
magnificent circle of peaks that wound around on every
hand. Such sights come seldom in a life-time. When they
do, they awaken emotions and thoughts very difficult to
forget-- still harder to express."

Much invigorated by this holiday and change, Thompson

returned to prepare his papers for the Meeting of the

British Association at Plymouth. He read there four

oconmm" uBninicaautiroanls.       One was  the  "fiHrsetaprianrgt  of a long research
                             Audition,"    or                      with Two Ears,"

which was not completed for several years, and which

helped to gain for him the recognition of the University of

Konigsberg, which granted him the honorary degrees of

M.D. and C.M.

To aid him in demonstrating electrical experiments

before very large audiences, Thompson had devised a form

of lantern Galvanometer. This he described and showed

at Plymouth. It was mentioned in Engineering of

Nov. 2nd, 1877, and was pronounced to be an exceedingly

simple instrument, which met the requirements of a good

lecture-room galvanometer in a remarkable degree. At the

Meeting at   Playsm"ouathmoSsitr           William   Thomson spoke of the
arrangement                                valuable  instrument," and said
40 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

that, " whenever he had occasion in future to explain electro-

dynamic phenomena to a large audience, he should certainly

avail himself of Mr. Thompson's beautiful arrangement."

  At the opening of the Autumn Session at Bristol Uni

versity, Thompson gave the Inaugural Lecture which was

later published as a pamphlet entitled The Methods of Physical
S"ceiexnpceer.imeFnirts,"t                                                      ' ' phenomena,  ''
                            e"xlpalwai,n"intghecalreecftuullryerthweetnetrmosn  to show, by     a

wealth of reference to the early history of Physical Science,

that law could only be deduced from the observation of

phenomena, after experiment which proved the facts.

  In the course of his historical account of scientific pro

gress he referred to Dr. Gilbert, the Elizabethan writer on

magnetism, in whose work he was then beginning to be much

interested. In enumerating the methods of Physical Science

he grouped them under various heads, Methods of Com

parison, Methods of Precision, of Analogy, of Hypothesis,

Mathematical and Graphical Methods. He endeavoured to

show the value of these methods in the training of the mind.

" As a mental and moral training, the pursuit of the
scientific method is absolutely priceless. Just think of
        is required of him      who would
what     crucial scientific     experiment.     acIcturaistelay                  perform a
single                                                                          moral and

intellectual training second to none. The will must be

brought into active and perfect obedience. A keenness of
moral integrity is requisite equal to that demanded of any
ma"nAinndatnhye
                 study.     we  penetrate  and  explore,                        and the more
                 further

we heap up to ourselves the treasures of scientific knowledge,
the more surely do we become persuaded of the aptness
of that beautiful simile of Newton's, that he who has learnt
most widely and most deeply is yet but as a child gathering
pebbles under the blue sky, upon the shores of a boundless

ocean."

Mr. William Crookes, then editor of the Quarterly Journal

of Science, wrote to the author :

It I" has given me so much pleasure that, had known of
Ithis address earlier,          should have been happy to have
printed it as an ordinary article."
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 41

   During the Christmas  lehcotulirdeasysto(18ju7v7e-8n)ileTshoomn ps"oVnolgtaavice
another course of six

Electricity." These required a great amount of illustration

and experiment, and occupied much time in preparation.

In attempting to explain such subjects to children, he was

"Ifollowing in the footsteps of Faraday and Tyndall, and
from the latter he received a short note :        wish you

success. Your movement, depend upon it, is an important

one."

The lectures were brilliantly successful, and the experi

ments so ingenious, that next year he received a letter from

Mr. Preece (afterwards Sir William H. Preece), of the Post
Office, asking if he could help him by suggesting some

experiments for some similar lectures at the Society of Arts.

This led to some correspondence, and many suggestions

from Thompson.

Mr. Preece wrote :

I I" send you herewith a copy of the lecture gave at the
I ISoc"iettyhoinf kArytso.ur
                You will see used two of   your experiments .
                                           and hope you will
                ear idear a splendid one,
Icarry it

showing
       out sooner or later.      give  yoItu   a   rough  sketch
       how we made the hat    speak.          is  a very  simple
experiment, and very telling. With many thanks.

       Believe me, yours sincerely,
                                       W. H. PREECE."

   At this time Thompson was in frequent correspondence

with Professor Guthrie in regard to the result of researches

which he was communicating to the Physical Society. In

December he wrote ;

I I" Many thanks for your kind offer of help for Saturday.
   am very sorry that cannot come up for the day : en
gagements are too pressing. Prof. Reinold has my paper,
and the specimens of films are under the care of my friend
Conrad Cooke, who will do ample justice to them. There
remains consequently nothing further to ask you to do,
unless you think it might be well to have some other wire
frames, and a Plateau's soap solution in order that the
Society may see in what respects the fixed films resemble
42 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

or differ from the true cohesion films of Plateau. You
will find my fixed films disappointing in not yielding chro
matic phenomena. They burst before setting hard, when
            thin as one   twenty-thousandth of an inch.
ma"deYoaus  are in error  in addressing me as ' Professor.'  The

Council of our College are discussing the question of turning
Ithe temporary Lectureships into chairs -- but have not done

it yet. So have no claim to the title."

   This letter refers to a research on soap films communicated

to the Physical Society, and afterwards published under
the title of " Permanent Plateau's Films."

   The day after Thompson's paper had been read he received

a letter from his friend Mr. Oliver J. Lodge, saying : " Your

permanent films went off all right to-day at the Physical.

It is jolly being able to have hard ones like that. Their

strength is remarkable."

   In January of the following year Thompson began

working at magnetical problems, and several interesting
letters passed between him and Professor Guthrie. On
January 10th he wrote :

I" made a rather interesting observation yesterday,
I Iwhich wish to inform you of, as think it may be worth
Iwhile to repeat it before the Physical Society.
                                                             have

neither the time nor the means to prosecute the subject
further at the present time. The observation is as follows :
The resistance experienced by moving bodies in traversing
a magnetic field is experienced also by vortex rings as they
cross such a field. My experiment was made with vortices
of coloured liquid, in water, passing either through a coil
of wire carrying a powerful current or between the poles of
a powerful electromagnet. The resistance was not, however,
Isufficiently great to completely retard and destroy the

vortices, and am desirous of knowing whether this would
I Ibe the case if a battery of 60 or 70 Groves' cells were employed
to excite the electromagnet.  am sorry have no prospect

Iof being up at any approaching meeting of the Physical

Society, or would have asked your permission to take
advantage of such an occasion to make some further
experiments in your laboratory."
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 43

   With regard to the researches made at this time a rather

curious occurrence took place in connexion with a paper
on "Some Magnetic Figures made by Means of Iron Filings,"
which Thompson had shown at the Physical Society, and

which had been apparently accepted as a new piece of
research. However, afterwards Professor Guthrie admitted
in conversation that these were not new to him, and the

following letter from Thompson explains itself, and is char

acteristic of the man :

" I have been thinking over the question I put to you last

Saturday, as to whether my filing-figures were new to you,
Iand feel a little puzzled how to act on your reply.
                                                                                                wish
I Ihad been able to see you in the morning, that might
have learned then that you had preceded me in this little
item of research, for it ..was relying on the opinion of
IProf. G. C. Foster and Prof. Adams that they were new

results that was induced to show them to the Society.
Aknno"dwBloeufdtgyetohuerofdgteifhnfeiecmruolstIiytykonfiontwhneontsoitptuuwabhtlaiioctlnytotsottahmtiinenkgl.ieysouhrerpere: vitohuast
I Iam placed in the position, when contemplate publishing
Ithe paper, of being about to claim for myself what know
Ito ""beI(tl1o)nagTppoteoaprasunbtoloitshhmere, mtthyhaoutsgethrhierese  arrived at it independently.
Iabout knowing now that am                                               courses are open to me :

Icou"rse                                                                 of figures, saying   nothing
        (2)                                                              not the first with  them --a

      which simply refuse to                                             take.   as  they go,   adding
       To publish the results                                            as far
Ithat have been informed that you have already done
      very thing.
the"  (3) To ask you  if  you       are  willing                         to      publish  your  results,

Iand whether in that case you will accept and embody mine,

in part or entire, and stating that had independently
Iarr"ivedwaant tthtoosteakwehincoh  are in my series.
                                    action in this matter                            that  you  would
I Inot cordially approve, and hope you will --as know you
Iwill do -- answer me with the freedom with which lay the
matter before you."

   To this Dr. Guthrie replied that three or fou years ago
Professor Barrett ' had shown him some similar figures, but

                    ' Of Dublin ; now Sir William Barrett, F.R.S.
44 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

that be did not claim them as new, and advising him to ask
Professor Barrett what literature there was on the matter.

  I I" have no claim in the matter. But in any case think

it would be well to state something to the effect that you

are informed that some of these effects, though unpublished,
have been exhibited before."

   Before receiving this advice Thompson found that his

electromagnetic figures had already been shown by Faraday,
from whose researches Professor Barrett also had got them.
He wrote :

I I" am surprised, not that did not know of their existence
Iin Faraday's book, but that no one of the members of the
Physical Society knew.  shall have to make the amende

Ihonorable to Prof. Adams as President. The other results

of which spoke are not described in Faraday."

   During this  oypeatircaallsoilluSsilivoannsuswhTihcohmphseoncadlleesdign"edStrsoombiec
very curious

Circles." They excited considerable interest among

scientific men both in England and France. He had

them printed on cards in sets of six, they were entered at

Stationers' Hall, and many thousands were sold. They

attracted the attention, among others, of Dr. J. Crichton

Browne (afterwards Sir James Crichton Browne), who asked
that a description of them might appear in the periodical

Brain, as he thought they were of special interest to those

who were engaged in the study of brain and nervous diseases.

This was done, and they thus reached a wide public.

Professor Stirling, of the Physiological Department of

College, Manchester,               wrote   some years   "laatmeur setdo
Thompson that these               Strobic  Circles had
IOwen's

Silvanus
many a passing moment. If any knowledge have from

the anatomic-physiological point of view is of any use to

you, it is at your service con amore. Your arrangement of

whirling cylinder is excellent."

The Strobic Circles reached a still wider public when they
LECTURESHIP AT BRISTOL, EARLY RESEARCHES 45

were used, with permission of course, by a famous soap

maker as an advertisement of his wares.

During this second year of Thompson's Lectureship,

when his reputation both as a researcher and as a teacher

was growing with great rapidity, the Council of the College

managed to collect sufficient funds to endow, very modestly

it must be confessed, a Chair of Physics. To this he was

elected in the autumn of 1878, the same year in which he

had also taken his degree of D.Sc. at London University,

in the branches of Optics, Heat, and Sound.

But the progress and growth of the University College

was very slow ; funds did not come in as freely as had been

hoped, and the scientific departments were cramped for space

and hampered by want of both proper equipment and of

assistance. Professor Thompson no longer had his young

brother as a voluntary assistant in his laboratory, and he

had to spend much valuable time, not only in looking after

his apparatus, but in actually making many pieces himself,

which might have been provided for his use. It was

not until several years later that he was allowed an assistant.

The College Council consisted of men who had little or no

apprehension of the enormous and rapid development which

was taking place in the knowledge and teaching of electricity.

The Principal also, Professor Alfred Marshall the economist,

was not particularly interested in science, so it was very

uphill work for any man who was seeking to keep abreast

of the demands of the age.

That year he still went on diligently working at small

pieces of research which cropped up in connexion with his

teaching. He also collaborated with Mr. Oliver J. Lodge,

then an assistant to Professor Carey Foster of University

College, London, in a research on the peculiar properties of

the tourmaline, a semi-precious gem. This Consisted of a
study of the Unilateral Conductivity of Electricity in the

c"rycsotnavlse.ctionTheofimhepaotrtabnyt   result obtained was   the proof of
                                                                 to an effect
                                          Electricity analogous

predicted by Sir William Thomson in unequally heated

metals (Bakerian Lecture, 1856)." The results of the
research were communicated to Section A of the British
46 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

IIAssociation at Dublin             reHseearaclhsoornea"dB, inamauornagl

other communications,
                 by Thompson.
                 Part of his

Audition."

The President of that year was Dr. William Spottiswoode,

an authority on optical phenomena. Among the Associates

of the Meeting were Jane Henderson and her sister, who

were staying with some Quaker cousins near Dublin.
Jane Henderson was at that time on the literary staff of

The Glasgow Daily Mail, to which her father had also been

a contributor for many years, and she was engaged by the
Editor of the journal as special correspondent to write a

lively general account of the meeting. The sections where

their old acquaintance Silvanus Thompson was showing

any of his fascinating experiments were of course diligently

attended.

The phenomenon of the rainbow and its optical causes

had for long attracted the attention of Thompson, who

with his love for painting, and his strong sense of the beauty

of colour, had tried to reproduce its marvels. This

a"uOtunmnsomhee  gave a lecture to  the Bristol Naturalists  Society
                   Obscure Points      about Rainbows."
                                                             It was

enriched with quotations from poets and writers from

Aristotle onwards, and illustrated by a great number of

experiments. It created quite a furore among the artistic

and literary circles in Clifton, and was talked about for

a long time afterwards.
                        CHAPTER IV

          PIONEER WOEK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION

SILVANUS THOMPSON found himself at the age of twenty-
seven occupying a post such as he had never dreamt of
attaining to when he started on his scientific career.
Now he felt the full responsibility of the opportunities
which lay before him, and set to work with a will to take
advantage of them. Along with most of the earnest young
Quakers of his generation, he had not been indifferent to the
subject of the social amelioration of the working classes.

    He was a diligent reader and great admirer of the writings
of John Ruskin, and believed with him that better conditions
would arise were the people better educated. Ruskin's
idea was to bring this about through teaching the use of
museums and the study of art.

    At the time when Thompson began to interest himself in
a better system of primary and technical education, he had
some correspondence with Ruskin, but it did not result in
 any very practical help towards a solution of the difficulties.

    With Dr. John Hall Gladstone, F.R.S., who was for
 fifteen years a member of the London School Board, he had
 been in constant correspondence for several years. Dr.
 Gladstone regarded the education problem from the point
 of view of a scientific man ; Silvanus Thompson did the same.
 The former was a pioneer worker in trying to obtain a less
 clerkly education for the children of London, and succeeded,
 while he was Chairman of the London School Board, in intro
  ducing some more systematic teaching of handwork and
  simple nature study into the curriculum of the schools.
  But for the older children there was still far too little of this
  teaching, and the small amount which they learned at
  school left them only fitted for blind-alley occupations.

                                                                 47
48 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

     Those who entered the industries wasted much of their
 time in simply trying to be imitators, without having any
 scientific knowledge of the materials employed, or of the
 proper use of tools.

    Thompson had already found how difficult it was to get
pieces of apparatus made in workshops from his own design,
exactly to drawings or to scale. Especially for optical
research he had found himself obliged to employ foreign
workmen to make apparatus for him. He was also far-
seeing enough to recognise that industries, electrical,

chemical, and optical, were going to develop more and
more in the future ; unless England woke up to the need
of technical education, she would be left far behind in

the race.

   With his usual thoroughness, he determined to see for
himself what was already being done in technical education
abroad, in order to acquire a comprehensive grasp of the

subject.

    He therefore devoted much time during several vacations
to making studies of how the people of France, Germany,
and Switzerland were dealing with the question, as well as
giving attention to what was being attempted in this

country.
   His first public contribution to the discussion of this

problem, which was beginning to take hold of many thinkers
of that period, was a paper read at the Social Science
Congress at Cheltenham in 1878, entitled "Technical
Education, Where it should be given."

   After reviewing the condition of scientific teaching in our
schools and colleges, which at that time showed only the
rudiments of what was really required, he pointed out how

the old system of apprenticeship had died out, and some
thing new must be created to take its place. He then gave
an account of the Ecoles d'Apprentis of Paris and Besancon,

and of Gewerbeschule and Potytechnicum of Germany and

Switzerland. This paper was subsequently printed as a
pamphlet, and when it fell into the hands of Mr. Ruskin,

the author received the following characteristic letter from
him :
PIONEER WORK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION 49

I"     MY"  DEAE SlB,            " BRENTWOOD, C'ONISTON,              LANCASHIRE.
               have read       your paper with great
                                                                      interest, and

Ientirely concur      in most of its statements and recommenda
                                              --what none of
tions. But it         fatally  ignores                                our modern
thinkers that          know    of ever         have recognised        --the power

of "raTchee ansdentcelinmcaet--e. ' There is no reason why an English
workman should not take,' etc., etc., p. 10 -- is too fatally
            N--oorgoeovder dewciollratbivee.  wItorbkeleovnegrs       been done in
false.1                                                          has  Etruscan and
                                                                  to
England
Pelagic races exclusively -- and in America -- no art whatever
wil"l
       be   possible  these hundred years.                       lectures,  you  will
           you care   to look up my published
       If
see these statements made at length -- and they are irre
fragable. You can no more teach an Englishman to paint
                               to             build"
"J.a wall than a kingfisher
                                                      a honeycomb.

                                                      Ever truly yours,

                                                                      RTTSKIN."

Thompson's reply to this has not been preserved. Not

long after he received another letter from Ruskin, which

shows his disappointment over his efforts in stirring up

public interest in education :                                     " BRBNTWOOD,
                                                                 January 25ft, 1879.
                                                      "

I"DEA"E     PROFESSOR THOMPSON,                                       till in a day of
            have kept your kind letter by me,
Idesperate effort to fulfil the duties of the past month --
Imust try to thank you for it. am so very glad to hear of
Ianyone ' missing ' Fors.                     hope, however, her work is
Idone--as far as in this present time is needful or possible.
  had no conception of the injury it was doing me to live in
the perpetual heated air of indignation, an effort or two

Ilately made to resume the index-work have instantly been
che"ckTehdoseas   if  had stooped in the Grotto del Cane.                        facts
                      see the truth and the horror of existing
                 who

   1 The paragraph referred to on p. 10 of Thompson's pamphlet ran aa
fol"lowThser:e is no reason why an English workman should not take just aa
high a place in the skilled industries aa a German or an American workman.
When he has the chance of acquiring the training he is in no respect
inferior, possessing more independence than the one, and more self-control
than the other."

          4
50 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Imust

little
    now deal with               them -- can do no more-- except by
    by little --my              index and the essential (absolutely)
/work of the Mastership till can find a Master.
                                Ever gratefully yJ.ouRrsU, SKIN."

                                                                                                                                    ·

    " The horror of existing facts " only stimulated Silvanus

Thompson to more strenuous endeavours to pursue his

advocacy of Technical Education. The City Guilds of

London and other City Councils were beginning to take up

the idea of providing trade schools and institutes for the

better training of youths about to enter the industries. It

was therefore most important that these should be started

on right lines and adapted to local needs. The Easter

vacation of 1879 was spent by him in studying in France

the systems growing up there. During the summer he

published a slender volume entitled Apprenticeship Schools
    FtrhaenceW. orkInshiotphe"                      France " The
in                              pointed out how in  thirty years,  School
in                               had existed for                   giving

examples of what he had seen, such as a famous factory for

making opera-glasses, the printing of railway timetables,

watchmaking at Besa^on, etc. The whole volume is

full of carefully collected facts about the various types of

education for apprentices in that country.

    Some months later he received a communication from

the Secretary of the American Institute of Instruction at

Boston expressing great pleasure in the pamphlet, and
asking if the author could suggest any particular lines of

inquiry, which would enable their Institute to try to

incorporate such ideas as a regular feature in public educa

tion. The writer concludes by saying :

    " Pray pardon the boldness of this enquiry. The earnest,

Idisinterested spirit which pervades your writings on thia
subject prompts it.             take the liberty of sending you a

Icopy of some remarks of my own at Philadelphia last year,

and hope to get the subject in its distinctly commercial
aspect before our National Board of Trade before many

months."

    In a visit to the United States in 1884, Thompson found
PIONEER WORK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION 51

how rapidly the idea of Technical Instruction had spread in
that country, and was able to gain much valuable informa
tion and guidance for future use in spreading the desire for

it here.

   During the long vacation of 1879 he made a pilgrimage
round the Trades Schools in Yorkshire and the North of

England, and also visited Glasgow, where a Technical College

already existed. In this city he was the guest of James

Henderson, then Superintending Inspector of Factories for

Scotland and the northern counties of England, with whom

he had formed a friendship during his student days in

London.

James Henderson had had long and varied experience of

social conditions among the workers in different parts of

England and Scotland, and was well known as a writer

on economic questions.

He was therefore well able to enter fully into sympathy

with Thompson's aims, and to help him in various directions.

On leaving Glasgow Thompson went to Germany, and

visited the great Technical Institute at Charlottenburg,

also those at Hanover and Chemnitz. On reaching Leipzig,

however, his investigations were cut short by a very severe

attack of laryngitis. His youngest brother was obliged to

go to him there, and nurse him until well enough to travel

home. He was unable to fulfil several autumn lecture

engagements which had been arranged for, but in December

he read a paper   to   thteitleSoc"ieAtpyporfenAtritcsesbhyipre:quSecsite. ntific  and
   He chose as    his

Unscientific." Professor Huxley was in the chair, and there

was a large attendance. Thompson began by giving

instances of the, in most cases, hopelessly inefficient train

ing then being given in the workshops of this country.

He then proceeded to lay down several general principles

of technical instruction which ought to be followed in training

future workers :

   "Firstly, in learning to perform any handicraft operation,
or to use skilfully any tool or appliance, it is evident that
the ability to do that one thing rapidly and well can only
be acquired by practice ; and that the beginner must learn
52 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

by doing the things many times over, slowly and carefully
at  "firSsetc, onradplyi,dlywhaenredasweilnl
                                              afterwards.
                                              the case of  most  skilled  (and       in

many so-called unskilled) industries, the craftsman must
know how to do a great many things, or to use many different
tools, it is evident that the process of acquiring the complete
knowledge of the craft will be much facilitated if the

learner be not kept doing over again that which he already
knows how to do rapidly and well. Having gained skill
in one operation by doing it often enough to acquire speed
                         he ought at once to set
and precision,           some other operation.             abIofuthemaisstekreinpgt  the
difficulties of                                                                      for

months or years doing over and over again that which he

already knows to do rapidly and well, employed as a cheap
machine simply to put money into his master's pocket, he
    l"osTinhgirdjulys,t       much time of his apprenticeship.
is                       so   practical operations which have

                         all                                      thus to            be

learned by repetition ought to be presented to the learner
in a graduated order, best suited to his growing powers ;

the easy first, the harder as he gains power and knowledge.
The round of manual requirements ought to be rationally

and"  systematically arranged.                should  be allowed  to      do any
      Fourthly, no apprentice                         how to do   it.
thing without being shown or told                                          It is a
point of the utmost importance that the young workman
should never be allowed to work unintelligently ; the habit
of unintelligent working once acquired is hardly ever thrown
off. The rational plan is to ascertain first how a thing
should be done, and then to do it. This constitutes, indeed,
the main difference in many trades between the practical
tra"inFinifgthloyf,                Continental workmen.
                     English and   in the general principles      of science,
                      instruction

which underlie almost all handicraft trades, ought to be

taught systematically to the learner by teachers who
understand what they are teaching, and who are also
acquainted with the practical details of the trade."

   The lecturer then went on to review the whole field of

what was being done in this country, pointing out that in
the Weaving Schools of Leeds, Bradford, Huddersfield, and

elsewhere, there was the beginning of that technical educa
tion which was required in every trade and handicraft all
over the land. He recounted what he had learned at first
hand of Technical Schools abroad. He pointed out many
PIONEER WORK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION 53

reforms needed in this country, and advocated the appoint

ment of a Minister of Education. Professor Huxley, in

inviting discussion, said that he had listened with the

greatest gratification to Professor Thompson's paper, not

merely on account of the obvious practical familiarity

with the subject which it evinced, and the valuable good
sense which it embodied, but for a more selfish reason --

because it entirely accorded with the views he had himself

expressed, coming to the matter from a very different side.

Two years before he had given advice as regards this

question which would be found to be in precise accordance

with the principles Professor Thompson had laid down.

During the discussion, Mr. George Howell, Mr. Hodgson
J.Pratt, and Dr.
                  oHf atlhleGliaddesatson"e    expressed  saopperlooqvuael,ntwlyith"
some criticisms,                             advocated

by the lecturer. Professor Perry and Professor Ayrton both

thought that England was too conservative to make use of

trade schools, and that methods adopted by Continental

nations would not suit our people. Professor Huxley,

in winding up the discussion, referred to the City Guilds of

London which were established to aid their respective trades,

aonndthdeeicrlawreedaltthhatb,eiinf gthaepppelieopdletoofittshipsrcoopeurntpryurdpiodsen,ot"inthsiesyt

deserved to be taxed down to their shoes."

In later years when, as Principal, Thompson came to carry

out practically some of the principles which he had laid

down so clearly in 1879, one of his students wrote :

   " Technical education was new and on its trial, much

less developed in England than in Germany and the United
States, and was in England at any rate looked at askance
by the ' practical man.' He [Thompson] was therefore
most anxious to demonstrate to each side the benefits of co

operation between science and industry, and he constantly
impressed on his students that when we got to the Works
we must keep good time, conform to all the rules, and be
willing to do any job assigned to us, however duty and
disagreeable it might be. But while inculcating the neces
sity of bearing the yoke cheerfully in the workshop, he was
also careful to awaken what he called ' the professional
instinct ' in his students, and as one means to that end
54 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

encouraged all to become student-members of the Institution
of Electrical Engineers and attend its meetings and those
of other scientific societies. Such meetings were great
times, when we saw and heard all the big men of the elec
trical world."

Another friend wrote :

   " Thompson was always inspiring when he took up the
cause of scientific industry. His wide experience brought
him endless examples of how to do it, and how not to do

it, whether in electric work, glass work, or the dye-stuff

ind"us' tBrey.little the teachings of science ; ignore the expert

trained in science,' he would say ; ' carry on your works
without him ; if you must pay him, pay him less wages
than you pay a fitter ; put him under non-technical
directors and managers who know no science. Then, when

after years of neglect, your chickens come home to roost,
and you find- the progress which ought to have been made
here is made in foreign countries instead, blame the patent
laws, blame the lack of protective tariffs, blame the Trades

Unions. Blame everything and anything, except the
chief est cause --the blindness of manufacturers and men

to the  truth that :   that industry   is" doomed  the  leaders  of
which   despise and   neglect science
                                       !

His " gospel of industry " and improved condition for the

workers depended most of all on the teaching of science,

first in the training of eye and hand in the elementary school,

then simple scientific teaching about common objects and

natural phenomena, in secondary schools, finally science as

applied to tools and processes in the technical colleges.

   Thompson's  prCreosuberlareermcnhste, "sthdaeunrdi"ngAcoctgthinoisanteyoefaqrMuehasagtdnioenbtsse.enondBiMrueotcbtheildies
to magnetical
Conductors of

research work was carried out under great difficulties, and

he was feeling discouraged about it.

His friend Professor W. F. Barrett of Dublin, writing to

the College secretary thanking him for the College Calendar

in 1880, sent a message: "Pray tell my friend Dr. S.

Thompsonrit appears from your calendar he is killing him
PIONEER WORK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION 55

self with work. His life is too valuable to be sacrificed
quite so early."

   Besides the elementary and advanced courses in physics
and the evening lectures, he gave four periods a week to
teaching Geometrical Drawing, and four to Surveying,
including during the summer one afternoon a week which
was devoted to field practice. One of his old students recalls
how they used to go out tramping to some vantage-point,
and how, when the work was done, the youths were only too
delighted to profit by the kindly good humour of their
teacher which prompted him to supply the party with
chocolate.

   The two following letters to Professor Guthrie tell their
own story. They are dated from Carlton Place, Clifton,
where Professor Thompson and his brother were then living :

"DEA"RPraDyR.   GUTHRIE,    surprised         at the occasion           of my
               don't be

wri"tiIntg   to you.   the  favour  of  your  support  in           my  probable
            is to ask

candidature for the Chair of Physics in the Josiah Mason
            at Birmingham.
Col"leMgey   reasons for contemplating        this step are easily
stated. Here my opportunities for work in Physics are
terribly circumscribed. My lecture-room is used for all

sorts of other lectures. My only laboratory is a damp
cellar 1 1 feet by 9 feet. The College cannot afford me any
assistant, nor can     --it thaeffyordwopnro'tpeerveanppbauryatuas    for any
quantitative work                                                   barometer  exact
                                                                                that
Iwill read to the tenth of an inch. Moreover, am saddled
Iwith work that do not care to continue -- the teaching of
Igeometrical drawing for example. The change will involve

pecuniary loss -- at least at first. Nevertheless must regard
opportunities for thought and work as higher than that.

IYou know me, trust, sufficiently well to speak of my
Icapabilities and work ; and shall esteem it a favour if you

are able to furnish me with some definite evidence to help

me in seeking to obtain the post."

   Professor Thompson did not succeed in the candidature
for this post, but soon after writing this letter he went
56 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

off to Glasgow on a visit to his former host there, James

Henderson.
   During his visit there in the autumn he had renewed

his friendship with the young people, whom he had first
known during his student days. The family life was of the
same quiet simple Quaker type in which he had himself
been brought up. But the three grown-up daughters were
all keenly interested in music, art, and literature, and he

found much in common with them. So the announcement

of his engagement to the eldest was not a great surprise
to his family, as he had already hinted to his mother of the

object of his journey North.
   On his way back from Glasgow he went to York to tell

his parents about the new daughter that was to be. After
this time letters flew northwards frequently, chronicling the
life and thoughts of a lover gifted with no mean powers of

expression.

   At the beginning of this term there was a change in the
staff of the College, Professor Letts having returned to
Belfast to the Chair of Chemistry there. He was succeeded
by Dr. William Ramsay of Glasgow, with whom Thompson
formed a lifelong friendship. They had many tastes in

common, though politically they were diametrically
opposed. Silvanus, however, took very little part in politics,
and detested party tactics. He was, however, a good deal

interested in the elections of 1880, as Lewis Fry was standing

as Liberal candidate for Bristol.
   To his fiancee he wrote in April :

I" am delighted at the progress of the elections, and the
unmistakeable decision against the worst and most un
principled of modern governments and the flashy froth of
Jew.
Our election
Ithe"
              is to-morrow,  hope we shall be all right ;
but it will be a near run."
              H

To the same next day :

   "We had a very exciting time. The day was fine

between the showers, and the city was enormously crowded,
PIONEER WORK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION 57

Iand very gay with party colours.                   never saw party feeling
Irun so high before, anywhere.                  dined that night with the
Wills, the cousins of the new M.P. for Coventry -- there
were about twenty present -- all men-- all Liberals --just
                                                party.    After dinner we
the lively   tyooutnhgeercitmy --enjuostf  the  late to   hear the news of
adjourned                                  too

Fry's election, and the speeches, but in time to see the

enthusiastic crowds surrounding                 It  the   newspaper  offices,
where telegrams were posted.                         was   rumoured
                                                                     in the

afternoon that if either Guest or Robinson got in, there
would be a riot. Mounted police were stationed at im
portant points ; long cordons of unmounted police lined
the thoroughfares about the Guild Hall ; and the militia in
the Horfield Barracks two miles out were ordered to be in

readiness. Happily nothing occurred of a riotous nature.
The Conservatives are dreadfully mad and wild at their

defeat."

   Early in  this year he  g"avaet         a popular      lecture on "  Heat
within the   Safety Lamp                   the Bristol                  This
                                                          Athenaeum.

attracted a great deal of local interest, it was largely

reported in the Press, and led to a considerable amount both

of private and public correspondence. He was now being

inundated with requests to lecture in all parts of the West

Country, and his duties at Bristol prevented the acceptance

of many of these invitations, unless the lectures could be

given at week-ends. One course which he gave that year

was at Cheltenham Ladies' College. Miss Beale, the success

ful pioneer of higher education for women, asked him to

give a course on Chemistry and Physics to her most advanced

students. Owing to the interest he took in the raising of

the position of women, he undertook to fit this in among

all his numerous engagements. He enjoyed meeting Miss

Beale, and they were always afterwards on friendly terms.

Professor Thompson was also to the end of his life a steady

supporter of women's claims to the franchise.

He was pressed to give the Inaugural Lecture at the

Mechanics' Institution, Nottingham, where he again brought

forward his plea for Technical Education. Afterwards

published as a pamphlet it bears the title The Apprenticeship

of the Past and of the Future, or Trade Education for the
58 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Working Men of Nottingham. He appealed to the working
men to make use of the splendid science school then growing

up in their new University College, showing how the new

inventions for generating electrical power   were  wliekreely"  to
revolutionise industry, though the signs of  that               as

yet but a little speck on the horizon." He closed with the

words :

  "It is only the man of weak and sluggish mind who

would wilfully miss the golden opportunity in store. For
it still remains to be true that to the lower and narrow mind
whatever he attempts is a mere trade; but to the mind of

higher mould the merest trade becomes a great and glorious
art ; for in doing one thing rightly he sees the image of all
that is done rightly."

Most of the vacations of that year were spent in Scotland,

but the happy occasion of the marriage of his eldest sister,
Marie, to Elewood Brockbank of Settle took him to York

in July. While attending the British Association Meeting

at Swansea in August, he wrote to his fiancee about another

publication on Technical Education :

  I" have a little bit of good news quite unexpectedly
Ito-day. More than a year ago sent to the Editor of the
IContemporary Review an account of some of the French
Schools.  heard nothing more, and supposed it had long

          to the wastepaper basket.
          morning, to my astonishment,
Iago"
gone                                    found the proofs
This

o f this very article awaiting my final corrections to appear
next month, under the title of ' Apprenticeship of the

I IFuture ' ! wish had had longer notice, as some of it really
Irequired rewriting. However have had to let it pass,

and am very glad that it will go in. I'll do something better

some day.

  "My paper on Electric Convection Currents gave rise to
some little discussion, but Section A was thinly attended.
Altogether the meeting is rather lees interesting than

usual."

   He read several other papers to the Association that year,
the most important being an account of the continuation
of his researches on the Tourmaline.
PIONEER WORK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION 59

poIrntantht epaEpdeur coantio"nThSeecTtieoanc, hiDngr.   Gladstone    gave an im
                                                        of Science  in Elementary

Schools." The discussion resulted in the formation of a

Committee, of which he was chairman, and of which

Silvanus Thompson was appointed a member, to inquire

into the question and suggest improvements. This com

mittee was continued for many years, and sent in reports

to the Association annually. Later in the autumn, Silvanus

read a paper on the same subject at the Social Science Con

gress at Nottingham, and again brought forward his in

vestigations into the apprenticeship school system.

   Feeling a contimied dissatisfaction with the prospects of
work in the College at Bristol, it was not surprising that he

made other attempts to obtain a more congenial post ; these,

however, proved unsuccessful, and he made up his mind to
settle down in Clifton, and took a house near the Downs,

12 Beaconsfield Road, which was his home until he removed

to London. Here he began the hard work of writing his

ibnotoekrruopntioEnlesc,traicnidtyheanwdroMteagonnecteis,m".     But there were many
it get finished ? "                                           My poor book, when will

During all that severe winter of 1880-1 there was great

anxiety about his father, whose health was rapidly failing.
The family had removed from York, and had gone to live

at Castle Hill House, Settle, which had been built by the

grandfather Tatham. Silvanus went to them at Christmas,

and found the beloved invalid very feeble, and a few weeks

later he passed away. Between father and son there had

been great confidence and sympathy, and the loss was

deeply felt.

On March 30th, 1881, Silvanus Phillips Thompson was

married to Jane Smeal Henderson in the old Friends'

Meeting House at Glasgow. There was a large gathering
of relations and friends, as it was a double wedding of the

two eldest daughters. Thompson's mother was not able to

be present, so after a week in Perthshire the young

couple visited her at Settle on their way southwards to

Devonshire.

The first term after his marriage was much occupied by
60 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

social engagements, for he was now very popular in Clifton,

and his bride was welcomed by his many friends. During
the summer parties in the many beautiful old gardens at

Clifton and the neighbourhood were greatly enjoyed.
This year Thompson acted for the first time as external

examiner, an office which he frequently undertook through
out his life, for many different Universities. He was
appointed as degree examiner in physics at the Newcastle

College of Science, Durham University, and his co- examiner
was Professor A. S. Herschel, with whom he for a long

time kept up a correspondence on scientific questions. In
April 1882 Professor Herschel wrote to him :

  I" We may not ask anyone to appraise us. for more than

two successive years ; it is just on that account that am
charged to write to you first, because of the thoroughly
Iapproved and appreciated way in which your last year's
examination was conducted.  am at any rate very glad
to have this task to offer you, as nothing will give me
gorfeiatte?r" pleasure than if you can by any means accept

   After spending part of the vacation in Scotland, Professor
and Mrs. Thompson went to York to attend the Meeting of

the British Association, where they were the guests for the

week of the Lord Mayor at the Mansion House. The man

chosen, on account of his ability as a speaker, for the office

of Lord Mayor that year was John Stephenson Rowntree,
Ita member of the Society of Friends.
                                           was the jubilee

year of the Association, and was attended by a most extra

ordinary number of men of the highest eminence in Science ;

some of the dinner and breakfast parties at the Mansion

House brought together more illustrious scientific men

than have perhaps ever assembled together during an

Association meeting since. In the Section Meetings, with
Sir William Thomson, Huxley, Darwin and their compeers

present and taking part in the proceedings, there were

many brilliant and memorable discussions.

Silvanus Thompson read a number of papers in Section A.

The third part of his research on Binaural Audition, on
PIONEEE WORK IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION" 61

Volta Electric Inversion, on the Opacity of Tourmaline,

and on A New Polarising Prism. In the last of these

papers Sir William Thomson took a great interest, and said
some complimentary things to the author in his usual kindly,

encouraging way.

   At this meeting the Red Lion Club dinner, which is the

opportunity for the scientists to unbend and make fun of
their own proceedings, was a very lively occasion, and
Thompson did a large amount of the roaring suitable to the
younger members. The soiree that year at the Art gallery
was a gay function, and the electric incandescent lamps
made a novel and brilliant illumination.

   The autumn session at Bristol saw the University College
under new guidance. Owing to delicate health Professor
Marshall had' been obliged to resign his position as Principal
and go abroad for the winter. He was succeeded by
Professor William Ramsay. For some time previously to
this Thompson had been acting as secretary to the Educa
tional Board of the College, and this he continued to do.
He also now had to devote much time and attention to the
fitting up of the new physical laboratories in the Science
wings of the College, which were the first portions to be
built of the large University which now stands in Tyn'dall's
Park.
                   CHAPTER V

CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE

THE work to be dealt with in this chapter was for the most

part accomplished in the last two decades of the nineteenth

century, though a not inconsiderable portion of it belongs
Itto later years.
                   was all carried on whilst fulfilling success

IIIfully his position as Professor, first at Bristol, and then at
Finsbury, as described in Chapters  and VII.

   The scope and value of his work can perhaps best be
grasped by considering it under three headings : ( 1 ) Public

Lectures and Conferences. (2) Published Works. (G) Dis
coveries and Inventions.

   The headings are taken in this order because it was

as an exponent of science that Thomps9n achieved world

wide fame, and several of his books were based upon his

courses of lectures. Through these works his name reached

an immense circle of people, to whom he early became known
as a scientist of high rank. His researches, though numerous

in earlier years, and of value in the gradual progress of

knowledge, were none of them of such striking originality

or so far reaching in result as to bring him world- wide

repute as a discoverer, such as Ramsay, Rontgen, or Madame

Curie enjoyed. The biographical note published by the
Royal Society mentions the communications recorded in

the Society's catalogue of scientific papers as being very
numerous, and of them it estimates 166 as important. His

technical researches were numerous, and his patents not a

few, but none of them were ever worked so as to be remunera

tive to their author. Chapter VI describes the misfortunes

of one of the patents which most nearly fulfilled the desired
end of patents, fortune making. The best of such research

                   62
    CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 63

work was embodied in his technical books, and communi
cated to the Institution of Electrical Engineers and to his
students.

I. PUBLIC LECTURES AND CONFERENCES

Thompson's public lectures began in Bristol, and extended

to Somersetshire and neighbouring counties. When lectur

ing for the Gilchrist Trust his subjects were by no means

limited to the then most popular one of Electricity. At

Bridgwater   in 1877 only the   lianstNaotfuraalcoPuhrisleosoopf htyen"  lec
tures on "  Recent Discoveries                                           was

devoted, to electrical phenomena.

The following list of nineteen titles has been found among

his papers of this period, and a choice of two or three of

these subjects was frequently offered in response to invita

tions to give a single lecture of a popular type :

        Lectures : The Telephone and Microphone. The Electric
            Light. The Earth as a Magnet. The Rainbow in
           Science and Art. The Physical Effects of Heat.
            The Safety Lamp. Boiling and Bubbling. Waves
            of Sound. Frost, Ice, and Snow. Comets and
           Meteors. Artificial Freezing. Atoms and Molecules.
            William Gilbert, the Founder of Electrical Science.
           Colour. Optical Illusions. The Photophone. The
          Eye as an Optical Instrument. The Ear as an
           Acoustical Instrument. Ancient and Modern Science.

    For the illustration of his lectures in Bristol he had easy
access to apparatus which was not available farther afield
at a cost acceptable to the organisers, and without experi
ments even his lectures would have been by no means as

acceptable to his audiences.

   In November 1878 he gave an important lecture on

Electric Light in Colston Hall, Bristol, which was so popular
that it had to be repeated a week later. That same season,
at the end of his Christmas Course on Voltaic Electricity
at Bristol Museum and Library, he received a letter from the
secretary of the Council sending him his fee and expenses,
64 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

" and           4            as  some acknowledgment     of their

       £20 presented

appreciation of your efforts on their behalf."

  It was in 1880 that he began to lecture farther afield, and

gave the opening discourse of the season         bteoingthe"   Leeds
Philosophical and Literary Society, his subject               Waves

of Sound and the Photophone," which same lecture he

delivered again to a similar society in Liverpool at the

Christmas season, persuaded thither by his cousin Isaac

Cooke Thompson, who was keenly interested in achieving

a success on this occasion.

  In the spring of this year, and again in December, he

lectured at the Royal Artillery Institution at Woolwich, one

of the lectures being on the Electric Light, which was just

beginning to be considered a possibility for the immediate

future. Invitations came also in that autumn from lecture

committees in Burton- on-Trent and Cumberland. This

was the winter preceding his wedding. Next year he gave

a long course on Astronomy at Bridgwater, and also his

little book came out in the late autumn of 1881, so, though

he had two invitations from Taunton, and others from

York Literary Society and Bootham, he did not undertake

occasional lectures away from home, except at the Society of

Arts,  w" hTehne  before an   unusually large  assembly  he lectured
upon               Storage   of Electricity."

Thompson's opinion of the importance of his subject may

be gathered from the two opening paragraphs :

   " Science has of late made two advances the ultimate
importance of which it would be difficult to over-estimate.
Not many months before he was seized with the mortal

illness which robbed us too soon of his rare and unique
genius, Professor Clerk Maxwell was asked by a distinguished
living man of science what was the greatest scientific dis

covery of the last twenty-five years. His reply was :
' That the Gramme machine ' is reversible.' His far-reaching

   1 An early form Of dynamo, with a ring armature, which when rotated
between the poles of a magnet produced a current of electricity in the
wires wound upon it. The reverse action referred to was the sending of
an electric current through these wires, whereupon the ring rotated, and the
machine became a motor.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE C5

and philosophic mind had perceived that in this phenomenon,
which to so many had seemed little more than a curious
scientific experiment, lay the principle which, if rightly

developed, would render possible the electric transmission
of power, and, in the solution of this practical problem,

bring about social and economic changes the importance of
          but few of us have even yet begun to realise.
wh"icIhf  we could to-night summon up the noble spirit   of  the

Iphilosopher, and ask him to tell us what recent scientific

discovery came next in importance to this, think we should
receive the reply ' that a voltaic battery is reversible.' The
reversibility in the action of the voltaic cell is the counter
part and complement of the reversibility of the Gramme
machine ; for while the one has solved for us the problem
of the electric transmission of power, the other has solved for
us the problem of the electric storage of energy."

   Describing storage batteries, he attributed to Gaston
Plante of Paris the advance in their practical construction,

and described a variety of effects obtained by their use,
some of which he himself first saw when visiting the inventor.
He showed how these cells and improved accumulators of
Faure could be used for producing electric light for domestic
purposes, though not economically, exhibiting a selection of
incandescent lamps lent to him for the occasion by the
Edison, Lane-Fox, Maxim, and Swan firms.

   The last part of his discourse particularly aroused the
interest of Bristolians, for Thompson discussed the problem
of utilising and transmitting the energy derived from wind
and water power. Power was not to be obtained just where
and when it was wanted. The reversibility of the dynamo-

electric machine solved the problem of the where, by giving
us a means of electric transmission. He thought the
reversibility of the voltaic cell would solve the problem of
the when, by enabling us to store the energy whenever it
was available. He expressed hesitation in accepting the
statements of Sir William Thomson in his recent Presidential

Address to the Mathematical and Physical Section of the
British Association, as to the use of tidal power not being

economically advantageous. He had obtained data from
the dock engineer as to the rise and fall of tides, and the

          5
66 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

tidal flow at Eownham Ferry, and calculated that a tenth

part of the tidal energy in the gorge of the Avon would

suffice to light the city of Bristol. He did not consider it

impossible of achievement, but looked forward to the

development of some different form of accumulator, the

types of that day being inadequate for such purpose.

Attempts were afterwards made to use the tidal waters of

the Avon, but it was found that so much mud was deposited
in the machinery as to render it inefficient.

Work in preparation for these lectures brought Thompson

into touch with several people actively engaged in the same

problems. He exchanged frequent letters with Gaston

Plante of Paris, whom he met at the Congres des Mectriciens

ihnim18"81d,e  but who already wrote     to him in    1880,  thanking
               votre bonne lettre recue  hier matin.         vois, avec
                                                         Je

plaisir, que nous avons les memes opinions scientifiques."

Thompson wrote once to his wife expressing delight at the

courtesy of many people from whom he obtained the loan

of apparatus. From Joseph W. Swan, with whom he at this

               lifelong                  he received
               you the                   very great
I It"imewibllegsaennda
                         friendship,                   a message  :
                         lamps with                   pleasure.

...am glad that you are experimenting on secondary cells, the
subject is of first-rate importance.     I spent a very

pleasant evening with M. Plante, thanks in a great measure

to you."

During the autumn of 1881 the Crystal Palace Company

were busy organising an International Exhibition of Elec

tricity, the preparations for which were for many weeks,

even before nearing completion, one of the principal attrac

tions to the public. The chief interest was in the numerous

systems of lighting by electricity ; there was a great display

of lights, fed by many dynamos driven by gas or steam
engines. Before this time the attempt to light the Savoy

Theatre by electric light was the only one generally known
to the public in England.

When the exhibits were nearly complete there was a

formal inauguration by the Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh,

who were received and shown round by the Chairman of

the Board, and several others, including Silvanus Thompson,
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 67

who was one of the jurors. Early in 1882 he had received a

letter from the manager, saying :

  "I have just had some conversation with Mr. Preece

Iwith reference to some lectures which wish to organise in
connection with the exhibition, and he has shown me your
      to him of a few days ago.
Inot"e wish to have a series of four  or  six   elementary  lectures

on Electricity with special reference to Electric Light. These
lectures would be delivered to the general public, and for
the most to grown-up people, but who have no electrical

Ikno"wledshgaell  whatever.    They  should be  strictly  elementary.
                   be glad to  hear  from you   as soon   as possible,
Ias shall not communicate with anybody else on the subject
at present."

   College Term had already begun, but this was an opening
too tempting to be refused, and Thompson replied promptly
accepting the invitation, if the arrangements he proposed
met with approval. He offered to give four evenings.

   The lectures were given in the large concert-room to a
numerous audience. They were well reported in many
papers all over the country, and thus, with the rapid sale
of his Elementary Lessons, his reputation as an electrician

became fully established throughout England.

    The Saturday Review, as is not unusual, passed some

caustic comments :

   " Professor Thompson showed that he had all the quali
ties requisite for a high-class popular lecturer -- a dramatic

style, a clear and audible delivery, and rapidity and dexterity
as an experimenter. The lecture was planned on very
sound scientific lines, the only fault being that the necessity
of covering much ground, and introducing pictures and

startling experiments, obliged the lecturer to make very
wide gaps in his chain of reasoning, which only fairly good
electricians and physicists could fiU up. However, a very
large audience seemed thoroughly pleaded with the lecture.
The defects which we have hinted at were unavoidable

from the circumstances, and we must really feel glad that
BO much sound scientific feeling was shown in so very
po"puTlhaer  a lecture. . . .
             more astonishing  piece of indiscretion      to which we
68 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

refer was Professor S.  P. Thompson's     thoew"n      private   th" etohreyoroyf
electricity. He began   well; he said                 two-fluid

would not do ; he said that Professor Clerk Maxwell might
have given us a true theory of electricity had he lived : he
referred to Maxwell's theories of strain of luminiferous
ether in the magnetic field, but he went on to say that he --
Professor Silvanus Thompson-- went further than Clerk

Maxwell, and looked upon a positive charge as a condensa
tion of ether, and on a negative charge as a refraction of

ether, and on an electric current as a flow of ether. We dare

not say that Professor Thompson is wrong, because we do
not profess to know what a charge is, or what a current is,
and therefore cannot say with certainty what it is not ;
but we fear that this expression will send a shudder through

the frames of most physicists who may hear of it. Such a
speculation in an ordinary popular lecture we could afford
to pass over. But when made in a lecture of such great
merit as that lately delivered by Professor Thompson, it
becomes of serious importance, and we cannot pass it over
without entering our protest against it."

  A week later the report was much more favourable :

  " It was a model of what a popular lecture ought to be.

Professor Thompson had obviously found out and reflected
upon the blemishes of his first otherwise excellent discourse,
and managed to keep a perfectly logical and easily intelligible
train of thought throughout his lecture, and led his hearers
on step by step from the first experiments and discoveries
of Faraday on magneto-electric induction up to the most
modern and improved forms of dynamo-electric machines."

    In commenting on the arc light lecture, the writer still

seemed to think the young Professor required some of his

former prescription :

   " At  !    oinle    moment we    were   able to feel   quel grand
                     pense comme  nous,   for Professor  Silvanus P.
komme

Thompson said that what remained to be done in arc
lighting was to improve the carbons ; the mechanical
control of the arc was now in many systems as perfect
                     hoped for
as  "coOunld   be    question of
              the
                                  pure  incandescent  lamps,     we were

glad to find that the lecturer, in spite of his obvious bias in
favour of Mr. Edison, really gave Mr. Swan fair credit for
  CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 69

his work on the subject. Perhaps Professor Silvanus P.
Thompson would do more good to Mr. Edison's reputation
if he refrained from such highly coloured laudation."

These comments on and criticisms of Thompson's lectures

have been given very fully. He was only just entering

into the full publicity of his career, and young, successful,

and confident as he was, his essential humility was very

possibly not apparent, and the comments deserved. Be
that as it may, he preserved the Press-cuttings, and in

future reserved his own theories for fuller confirmation.

The Press comments upon these lectures lay emphasis

on two points apart from the actual scientific facts and

theories. Thompson had taken the opportunity to advocate

better education :

" If England desires to reap the benefit of this impending
reorganisation of the methods of mechanical production,
if she desires that her workmen should rise to the immense
future before them, she must not lose an hour in providing
them with an education in matters electrical, seeing that a

knowledge of electric currents and their properties will be of
ofathr emr orberanpcrhactoicf aslciiemnpcoer.tanIcfe     than a
                                                      technical  knowledge    of  any
                                                                 education  does  not

come in any other way, it will be forced upon us by the
practical fact that electricity is to be our servant in place

of steam and of coal."

Amongst the numerous departments in the exhibition

was one devoted to electro-medical appliances, and according

to the advertisements of some of the exhibitors, their

appliances were likely to effect cures where everything else

had failed. In the first of his lectures the magnetic, thermal,

and physiological effects of the electric current were illus

trated  "  experimentally,  of  with the very emphatic remark
that       the mistake            confounding physiological with

medical or remedial effects led to the gross impositions

of the quacks and rogues who deal in so-called magnetic

appliances, and disgrace alike the sciences of electricity

and medicine, while knowing nothing of either."

This was incautious action on the part of the lecturer

had he desired a life of peace, for he at once received
70 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

numerous    communications  "   from "medical electricians"
and firms  manufacturing       magnetic appliances," and also

from private people wanting advice.

Thompson took an active interest in preventing these

medical swindles, while managing to avoid prosecution

for libel. In the celebrated case of the Harness Swindle

so  thoroughly exposed by   the Pall Mall Gazette  in"  1893-4,
he   was one of the expert                              quacks
                            witnesses against the

and rogues." Science Siftings, a little paper which, with
The Electrical Review, brought about the exposure, and was

one of the journals sued by Harness, devoted a page to the

trial of Dr. Tibbits for his testimonial with regard to the

virtues of the Harness Belts, and commented thus upon

Thompson's part in it :

   ' ' Of the value of these belts in generating electricity,
which is the point to which counsel for the plaintiff pinned
their flag, it will suffice to quote from the evidence of
Professor Silvanus Thompson. The learned scientist said
that the current he measured from one of the belts was less
than could be secured by connecting up an ordinary pin and
needle and dipping them in a spot of ink. And, forsooth,

five guineas seems to have been the charge imposed upon
rich and poor, for a belt possessing no more electrical pro
perties than Professor Thompson alleges can be generated
in the connection of what we shall term the proverbial pin
and needle. Pointed criticism this, on the part of a skilled
witness in more than one sense, and we are sure Professor
Thompson possesses a quainter vein of humour than the
scientific cult of these days is usually credited with."

  It is fair to recall these efforts against quackery, because

later, when Thompson was helping to organise the Spectacle

Makers Company's Examinations for Opticians, and
encouraging the granting of certificates, he met with some

heated opposition from sections of the medical profession,

especially from ophthalmic surgeons, who suspected his
policy as encouraging unskilful and fraudulent practice.

   In 1882 Thompson had already, in the January vacation,

lectured in Oldham, Birmingham, and Altrincham, but
after the Crystal Palace Lectures, invitations poured in
from all sides, from Falmouth in the South-West, to Don
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 71

caster and Newcastle in the North, from Lecture Com

mittees and Societies, Institutes, Y.M.C.A.s, Mutual

Improvement Societies, and from several groups of Quakers.

tBimy eSewpatsem"befur ll  he   wrote to one institute,  saying his spare
                            up   to Easter 1883," and    in response to a

local invitation, that he had "already refused twenty

invitations this season, all energies wanted for our own

laboratories."

   Perhaps something should be said about his welcome in

the North. At the end of the year he lectured again in

Liverpool    at the        United Soiree of          th"eThLeiteEracroynomSciicenPtirfioc
and Art    Societies,       his subject being
duction of Electricity." 0. J. Lodge was now settled in

his home there, and invited Silvanus and his wife to stay

with them, if they could be spared from over the road, at

t"hTehceouEsleincst'r.ic  After  C"hirnistSmetatsle  he made a tour, lecturing on
                          Light
                                                     ; it was a great event in that

oqnuie"t   little place.      He  went on to         Glasgow, speaking there
          The Earth a      Great  Magnet," a         lecture already delivered

in the Midlands. The Glasgow people were enthusiastic

about his lecture. To his wife, who was not able to accom

pany him, he wrote home :

                                                     " GLENVAI, POLLOKSHIELDS,
                                                                  January 12th, 1883.

" All went off well last night. Sir William Thomson was
Ipresent, and moved the vote of thanks at the end. The

people here say gave them the best science lecture they
I(The Glasgow Science Lecture Association) have had this
season. . . . Papa and            are going to lunch with Sir
William."

This lecture had also been very well received and reported

in Altrincham, where great local enthusiasm was displayed

by the     Bowdon Literary and                       Socifen"tiaficlanCtleurbn,   by whose
efforts   he was able to make use                                                of peculiar

construction,1 which allowed of experiments being readily

performed in it, and thus exhibited on the screen. Experi

   1 This is probably the lantern described in The Photographic Newt of
December 8th, 1882, as used by him at his Society of Artu Lectures on
Dynamo- Electric Machines,
72 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

ments were, in consequence, possible which would otherwise
have required heavy and costly apparatus to render them
visible to a large audience. . . . For nearly two hours he was
listened to by his audience with an attention that never

    His second lecture in Altrincham, less than twelve months
after his first, was an even greater success, when, owing
to the enthusiasm of a local man, electric plant was obtained
for the occasion, enabling the inhabitants to enjoy for the
first time the dazzling light of four arc lamps, while the
lecturer discoursed of their mysteries, and the history of
their invention. His concluding remarks turned on the
advantages and disadvantages and the economic production
and distribution of electricity, comparing its cost with that
of gas. He told how in France it had been proved possible
to plough, to reap, to sow by means of electric engines.
He believed he had proved in vaiious ways that there would
be distinct economy in generating currents of electricity at
a central station on a large scale, and in distributing them
to electric engines, which would supply power on a small
scale far more cheaply than steam engines.

  It is interesting to note that in these early days, before

electricity had begun to be adopted by the community for
practical purposes, Thompson always seems to have pictured
large central stations. Frequently in later life he deplored
the immense number of small stations and companies ; and
the idea of organising about a score of central stations for
the whole of Great Britain, recently so prominently before
the public, had his support over twenty years before it was
a popular question. The subject of central stations
evoked general interest at the Bradford Meeting of the

British Association in 1900. It arose in the Section of

Economics and Statistics in a discussion on Municipal
Trading, during which Thompson remarked that the
supply of electricity for lighting and power on a large scale
was not a parochial or even a municipal question, but a
large question affecting whole counties and districts ; and
he commended the Lancashire Powers Bill, and urged wide
co-operation in the matter of electrical supply.
   CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 73

   Advocates of municipal administration were not pleased

by this. A leading article in The Yorkshire Post next

morning rejoiced that, " in spite of Professor Silvanus

Thompson," bills for electrical supply were actually being

promoted by local bodies, such as the London County

Coptrohouefnirtc-ielc,iatiraennsi.dngtThcehoomCmpoaprpnsoioernsatfi"oanvtoshuarteofdbGytlahtsehgeoswcEh,leemMctaernsiccohfePso"twevrea, rriaoBnuidlsl

sought to disturb the rights of the local corporations in

order to establish their stations and installations. He had

given expert evidence before Parliament in 1900 in con

nection with the Lancashire Power Bill ;                           with several
          ;

                                                              it,
others, was defeated. The following year, after visiting the

district proposed to be served by the Caledonian Electric

Power Scheme, he reported favourably thereon to the

promoters and also gave evidence to the Parliamentary

Select Committee in favour of both the Yorkshire and the

Derby and Notts Electric Power Bills. In his evidence

he declared himself to have been for fifteen years an advocate

of extensive schemes of this sort, and he described results

obtained from such all over the world.

   He was full of this subject, and when invited to deliver

the Popular Saturday Evening Lecture at                            the British
Association at Bradford, he chose as his title                     " Electricity

and Industry."               The main interest     c"einntrebdulkr,"ounadnd  the
                            supply of electricity                             he
question of the

described the great power stations of Niagara, of Rhein-

felden, and of Vizzola in Lombardy, which were creating

whole new industries, and new industrial communities living

under conditions materially and socially greatly in advance

of those with which they competed. England, not posses

sing waterfalls,1 should place electric generating centres

right at the mouth of the coal-pits. He urged upon his

audience the thought that this was not only an industrial

question  affected the well-being of the community at
       ;

          it ;
               it

                         a
large     was great national question.

This lecture was delivered in the St. George's Hall,

      Later Thompson took a great interest in the use of water-power at1
Aberystwith.
74 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

which was said to seat 3,500 persons, and was described as
being packed from floor to ceiling with an audience com
posed in an overwhelming proportion of men of the working
classes. According to the report in The Times :

   " They listened with the closest attention and keenest

interest to the lecture, which lasted for an hour and three-
quarters, and showed their appreciation of the many
effective experiments and demonstrations in the most cordial
way. At the conclusion of the lecture, and again when
the vote of thanks was put by the President, the manifesta
tion of feeling was such as is generally associated with a
great political meeting, rather than with a scientific lecture."

Thompson wrote to his wife :

" The meeting has been very successful. They pressed
Ime to repeat my lecture for the Bradford children for next
Saturday evening.   declined : but have agreed to give
them a Children's Lecture on December 31st. Mr. and
Mrs. Priestley [the Mayor and Mayoress, with whom Thomp
son stayed in Bradford during the Association] hope that

Iyou will come down to Bradford then ; and, in fact,
have also had invitations to stay on that occasion from

two other quarters-- [Quakers]. Nothing could have
Iexceeded the kindness of Mr. and Mrs. P. ; and all the
Bradford folk have been most cordial.  find on coming

Iback a most enormous pile of letters and of College work.

How to get through the next two days know not : it will
be "aWgereahtadpuashli.vely dinner of the Red Lions on Tuesday
night. My host was amongst the privileged few who

Iwere admitted (of local men) , and greatly appreciated the
burlesque science.  drew them some caricatures on the

blackboard as a small contribution."

   The experiment of a lecture to 3,000 children at once,

even though only picked members of the upper standards
formed the audience, was disappointing. The children wore

clogs, and were so excited by the novelty of the occasion,
that even the appeals of the Mayor failed to keep them in
their seats, and the lecturer found it almost impossible to
make his voice heard above the clatter. However, there
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 75

were many who were quite satisfied that the imagination

of  th"eEyleocutnrgicsitteyrs   was aroused  by the  brilliant  experiments
on
                               at Work."
    In tracing Thompson's interest in the subject of central

supplies of electricity, we have been carried on far into

"The Electrical Age," and must return to Bristol, 1882.

   At the opening of the University Session in the autumn,

Thompson gave the introductory lecture on a Saturday
evening in the Museum and Library, where many of his

colleagues, and a large assembly besides the students,

attended to hear his discourse upon "TheAge of Electricity."

He gave an epitome of the advances of the science which
had been so marked in the six years that he had been at
Bristol, and he appealed to the citizens not to be indifferent

to the advancement of electrical science and its applications

to the machinery of life, concluding with a well-prepared

peroration as was his wont :

  I" have insisted on the reality of the age of electricity

on which we are entering, as marking a distinct epoch
in the material civilisation and development of the human
race. Far be it from me to depreciate the other factors in
the development of man, and of these intellectual faculties,
whose roots are struck, not in the material conquest of the
forces of nature only, but in those moral and spiritual forces
which, though less tangible, are none the less real. Where
scientific knowledge ends, there begin the emotional and
poetic faculties, the play of purely intellectual activities of
which science can render no account. Those faculties can
exist without science-- nay, may be said to have pre-existed.
Science did not make them, and cannot destroy them.
Yet no man possessing these faculties can be heedless of
scientific progress, for, after all, the sober facts of science
are amongst the things that most excite the wonder, the
amazement, the delight, the poetic fervour of man."

woTrhkisonch"atphteer    was   to be mainly devoted to Thompson's
                       sober   facts of science," but it was so charac

teristic of his mind to link these with the imaginative

elements of human nature, that it seems unnatural to pass

by without this slight reference. The fuller working out
76 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

of this thought was expressed publicly in an address which

he gave in 1885 as President of the Wellington Literary

and Scientific Institute.

  In 1882 Electric Light was the question of the day ; it'

was passing out of the region of theoretical experiment

into that of practical utilisation. The gas companies began

to take alarm, and there were many heartburnings in the

various municipalities as schemes for the new lighting were

proposed and opposed. Citizens of Bath, who were eager

for reformation, engaged Thompson to give a lecture in the

Theatre Royal, and provided him with funds for the hire

of the necessary machinery for exhibiting both arc and

incandescent lamps in action.

Thompson took every opportunity of furthering the

popularity of the new light, and contributed to a variety

of journals, articles intended to Teassure the public as to

its cheapness as well as its other advantages.

  1882 was the year of the Electric Lighting Act. In

this measure Thompson had some part, having prepared

a Report  and  dGeesncerribael dAdinvic1e884onasDr"aaft  Provisional  Orders.
This Act  was                                            panic Act,"  carried

through by representations that the public would be left

at the mercy of an enormous monopoly. It not only

fixed the maximum rates of charge to consumers, but

contained an objectionable Purchase Option Clause,

authorising local authorities, if they so chose, to acquire,

after twenty-one years, the entire property, plant, etc.,

of the company or person who had undertaken to supply

electric light, at their then value, without any addition

in respect of compulsory purchase, or of prospective profits.

It was felt, and publicly expressed by Sir Frederick

Bramwell at the British Association in 1884, that the

conditions imposed by the Board of Trade framing of the

Provisional Orders had been unjust, and had discouraged

the  investment of capital in such enterprises           ;  "aWndhyhedroeeins
                                                         :
lay  the reply to the   frequently  he"ard  question
not  electric lighting   go ahead
                                    ?

Thompson was amongst the forty-five members, but not

one of the eleven on the Executive,' of the General Com
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 77

mittee, formed on the suggestion of the President of the

Board of Trade, to frame clauses in amendment of the

Electric Lighting Act, and to confer with the Board of Trade

as to the terms of the Provisional Orders and Licences. It

was summoned in November 1884, and the deliberations

continued intermittently for some months.

1 882 was also the year of the Lightning-rod Conference,

which drew up rules for the guidance of those who desired

to protect their property from being struck. The findings

of this Conference have since been much criticised, par

ticularly by 0. J_ Lodge, but also by the Lightning Research

Committee ( 1 905). Thompson's contribution to this subject
                       pMaapgearzitnoet,heMPahrcyhsic1a8l8S8o, c"ietOyn,
was in  the form of a                                                     published
in the  Philosophical                                                     the Price

of the Factor of Safety in the Materials for Lightning-
rods." In proportion to their effectiveness iron was, he

calculated, very much cheaper than copper.

Another question of public interest in which Thompson

took an active part from early years was that of safety in

the coal-mines. In 1 884 the Ellis Lever Prize was offered

for a perfect safety lamp. The Miners' National Union laid

down the conditions, and Thompson served for them aa

one of the adjudicators, receiving very cordial thanks for

readily undertaking the arduous duty of testing the safety

lamps, and also for the admirable and painstaking manner

in which he had carried out the duties at the cost of much

of his valuable time involved in travelling, as well as in

experiment and consultation with others. Three years
later, when a lamentable disaster in the Udston colliery

was reported as caused probably by the opening of a lamp
by a miner, he wrote to The Times, pointing out how no

perfect lamp had been found amongst those submitted

for the prize in 1884, but that since then the electric safety

lamps had been much improved. He suggested that a

Royal Commission to supplement the work of the Accidents

in Mines Commission should institute a special inquiry into

electric safety lamps.

   Thompson once spoke to an audience composed chiefly
of miners, when in 1891 he gave the British Association's
78 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

operatives' lecture at Cardiff, on the subject of " Electricity

in Mining." A crowd of men attended, special trains

having been run to bring them to it ; this in spite of the

fears of the local committee, who were for giving up the

whole idea within a week or two of the lecture, when most

of his preparations for it were well on their way ; and such

preparations  were no light task   t"o   anyone who,    in the
words of Sir  Frederick Bramwell,       was willing to  devote

himself on behalf of the Association." Machinery he then

described as in use in some parts of the world, has not yet

been made use of in English mines, as he had hoped it

might be.
   After he left Bristol and became more closely occupied

with the innumerable calls upon his time in London,

Thompson gave up the practice of delivering isolated
popular lectures, except on rare occasions. He lectured
several times in the London Institution, and in 1889, when

invited to lecture there, he drew up the following list of
subjects : The Magic of Amber and Lodestone. Distribu
tion of Electricity. Electric City Lighting. The Galvanic
Arts. Arcs and Sparks. Action and Reaction. Sins of

Art against Science. Myths of the Magnet.

   Amongst his correspondents at this period was Mr.
James Wimshurst, F.R.S., Chief Shipwright Surveyor of the
Board of Trade, who devoted most of his 'leisure time to

experimental work, and fitted up for himself at his house

large workshops, equipped with engineering appliances,

driven by power. Thompson experienced the pleasures
of his generosity and hospitality, to which he paid tribute

in an obituary notice for the Royal Society in 1903. In

1881 Wimshurst had become interested in electrical influ

ence machines, of which he constructed more than ninety,

making continual alterations and improvements. Many
of them he presented to his scientific friends ; Thompson
received two at least at different times, once with the

note :

I" and please remember that at all times shall be glad to
Icontribute any other thing may be able to aid you in your
Iadvancing steps of research -- moreover, am (except for
   CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 79

business calls) usually at home in the evenings, and shall
always be pleased to see you for the little chat, or a few
experiments."

   1888 saw the 100th anniversary of influence machines,

William Nicholson having written a letter, read to the

Royal Society by           its President,              aSir"JoresveoplhvinBgankdso,ubilner,178a8n,
announcing his            invention of

instrument which, by the turning of a winch, produces the

two states of electricity without friction or communication

with the earth." Thompson wrote a short history of

the after-development of Nicholson's doubler, which was

published in the Journal of the Proceedings of the Society of

Telegraph Engineers and Electricians ; and at his instance

Wonim"shInufrlsutenwcaes  persuaded to lecture         at the  Royal        Institution
                          Machines." Three             years   later        Wimshurst

wrote to Thompson regretting the little attention being

given to that line of research :

I" neglected for the reason (at least so suppose) that there

is no money in it, and the branches of electricity which for

Ithe present have commercial value are flooded with seekers.

Now, know that you do take an interest in the glass and
tinfoil line as much as in the copper wire, and the modern
bricks of iron business, and therefore, if you should have

Ianother evening to spare in the course of this recess, assure
Iyou that think we might profit by it together."

"  Their interest was not                      confined to the elder man's
   fadism," as he dubbed                            for in 1894 he wrote to
   1
Thompson     a

                            :

                      it

                          I
                                             it,
                                                  is it

                                                                                                             '
   " Your beautiful experiment of the Electrical Vortex
has been in mind since.                        did not try the twisting force
of the egg, but seems to me that would be sufficient to

   At Royal Society soiree Thompson exhibited nine Illustrations of

Polyphase     "ERleecvtroilcutiCounrrenofts,a  one of  which     described  thus in the pro
gramme:                                        copper  egg in  a rotatory   magnetic field."

The eggs lay upon a tray, and when the electromagnete in the neighbour

hood were excited they began slowly to rotate upon their sides, but as their

speed increased they rose and span                     euTvpehoneniyngtwhe"erierAteanlHsdoosm.eexshTibh"ieteodfexthpaeetrifm"ameMniotlysr-.

aJarnoduse"d   great  curiosity  and delight.
              on the  occasion   of one of the
80 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

drive an aerial machine. Could you not make a light egg
or sphere, 'and on it place light vanea ; or have the light
vanes with just sufficient metal on them to suit your
purpose, if so it would poise itself in the vortex, and add
another to your instructive and beautiful devices."

  In the  year of    Queen   Victoria's Diamond           Jubilee,
          lectured  at the  Crystal Palace on "         Electrical
Thompson

Discoveries and Inventions during the Queen's Reign,"

including in his demonstrations signalling across       s"pawceir,elensost
through conductors, the beginnings of so-called

telegraphy." Of this subject he became an accredited

exponent, though claiming little contribution to its progress ;
he followed closely the developments from the outset, which

he dated from about the year 1876, when he was himself

experimenting on oscillating sparks and their inductive

properties (see p. 22).
   In                                          Aonrts"
        1898 he  received from the Society of           one of their
uilver   medals  for his lecture before them            Telegraphy

across Space." ' In his lecture he described the achieve

ments of Preece in the Bristol Channel and elsewhere, using

the conductive method of signalling through water between

long base-lines on land. Effects obtained by earth conduc

tion had been investigated to some extent, and induction

methods also were under experiment by Preece, who had

used the telegraph wires forty miles apart on the Scottish

border, and had communicated sounds from the Newcastle-

Jedburg line to the Gretna line. Thompson told of a vain

offer he had made to a financial friend in the city seriously

to undertake to establish telegraphic communication with

the Cape, provided £10,000 were forthcoming to establish

the necessary basal circuits in the two countries, and the

instruments for creating the currents. Two effects coupled

in his mind led him to believe in the possibility of his plans :

Firstly, when one of the dynamos of the Ferranti station
at Deptford became once accidentally earthed, all the

railway signal telegraphs of South London were affected,

and the earth currents were detected as far away as Leicester
and Paris. Secondly, a single circuit operating an instru

1 Published in the Smithsonian Report for 1898, Washington, I'.s.A.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 81

men t such as the phonopore by means of alternating currents

of high frequency could be heard in telegraph lines a

hundred miles away.
   In his
           lecture  T"hsoymntposnoyn,"sptohkee   of the    great importance of
Lodge's    idea of                              tuning     of the transmitting

and receiving circuits, so as to enable the receiver by reson

ance to select out one particular signal from amongst many

issued simultaneously from different sources. The greatest
practical successes till then achieved were those of Marconi,

who for two years had had the advantage of facilities for

experiments on a large scale granted to him by the British

telegraph department, and had signalled intelligibly over
a distance of eleven miles ; and of Professor Slaby, of Char-
lottenburg, who had penetrated thirteen and a half miles
over land ; many experimenters were then at work, and
making rapid progress in other countries and continents,
and no account Thompson could give of the work could be

complete.

   Writing to Lodge about The, Times report of this lecture,

Thompson added a postscript :

   ' ' After my lecture a man came up to me. Said he had
heard a lecture on Marconi last week by a lecturer who had
Marconi's own apparatus to show, who told them that
M. did not use electromagnetic or Hertz waves : for EM.
waves spread like sound in all directions (diagram on screen),
while the Marconi waves went straight to the place to which

Ithey were directed -- even through mountains -- (diagram

shown) ! ! ! ! replied it was most amazing."

thaMtan"yMiallr-cinofnoirmwaevdesp,"eopasledsiseteimncetd  to be under the delusion
                                                           from Hertz waves, had a

real existence and had special properties. This, of course,

is nonsense.

Thompson lectured some years later to the Hampstead

Scientific Society, using Lodge's apparatus.
   The development of wireless telegraphy in England is not

a happy story. The name of Marconi calls up a whole
series of newspaper controversies, patent cases in the law

courts, as well as libel suits involving the names of members

of the Government.

6«
82 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

  It was as a historian of science that Thompson became
involved in these distasteful affairs. In April 1902, after

Marconi had achieved the magnificent success of sending

an intelligible signal over 1,500 miles across the Atlantic,
Thompson contributed to The Saturday Review, for which
journal he from time to time wrote on scientific subjects

(though nothing could have been more alien to his sym

pathies   th"anThthee  political views of the paper), a signed       article
entitled               Inventor of Wireless Telegraphy."                This

article was a fierce attack upon what Thompson considered

the excessive claims of Marconi to the inventions of the
day ; and it set out the case of the experimenter whom
Thompson believed to be the original inventor of wireless

telegraphy, Oliver Lodge, whose experiments had been

exhibited and explained to many scientific societies in

England two years before any patents were taken out by

anyone.

   Thompson held a very poor opinion of English Patent
Law, and gave his reasons for it in his second Presidential

Address to the Physical Society in 1902. Such was English

Law, that Lodge, having expounded his inventions to

scientific societies, might not patent them in England,
though he might, and did do so in the United States, at the
Patent Office where rigorous proof is required as to actual

first invention by the would-be patentee.

The article in The Saturday Review provoked a hostile reply

farsomheMtaorockonthi,eatnrdouabrleejotionde"rmfarokme  Thompson,    very explicit,
                                                        good, point  by point, by

reference to the pages of original documents," the state

ments to which he put his signature ; statements to which

no detailed reply was forthcoming, only the suggestion that

h"eabwsoalsuteretaanidlinggratmuaitloicuiosusuntrguotshs.i"p,  and had fallen into

                                                               In vain he asked for

contradiction of his facts. Correspondence was afterwards

opened in The Times and the Westminster Gazette by a letter
from Lieutenant Solari of the Italian Navy, who claimed

a friendly interest in Marconi's experiments ; and finally
the controversy was turned to a complete comedy by the

intrusion of Mr. J. Henniker Heaton, M.P.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 83

As was said by a writer in Electrical Investments at the

time, whether Professor Thompson were right or wrong in

his history, the general public  will always                         a"scsoomciamteerctihael
name of Marconi with wireless
                                 telegraphy ;

success is, in fact, the proper criterion in this as in most

matters of applied science." In fairness to Thompson,

however, it must be added that a month or two later the

same newspaper contained the following paragraphs :
   " The electrical Press is calling on Mr. Marconi for an

explanation. The cause of the clamour is the following
' application for amendment ' in a recent issue of the
             Journal  of the Patent Office
Officia"l '            Guglielmo Marconi    :                        leave  to  amend
             18,105.
                                             seeks

.  the       "ApImplpicraotvieomn efnotrsLienttceorhsePreartsenotr,   numbered as above,
   for                                                               detectors for electric

   waves," by converting it into an application for a Patent
   for an invention communicated to him from abroad by
   the Marquis Luigi Solan, of Italy.'
"  Those who have followed Professor Silvanus                        Thompson's

vigorous onslaughts against Mr. Marconi's priority in certain
patents will appreciate the desire for an explanation."

   Controversy on the subject never died down for long, but
Thompson took little further part, though following every
achievement in the scientific field, and, as far as the public
were permitted to do so, the schemes and rivalries of the

company promoters. In 1906, at the time of the second

International Wireless Congress at Berlin, there was a great
stir in the Press, when it seemed that the contracts of Great
Britain and Italy with the Marconi companies prevented
these Powers from agreeing to the internationalisation of

wireless telegraphy. Garbled history in defence of certain
actions of the Marconi company was put forth in The Times

correspondence columns, and provoked Thompson once more
to endeavour to correct the impressions of the public in
this matter.

   He presented a concise history of the subject in a pamphlet
privately printed in 1911 in connection with the successful

petition of the Lodge-Muirhead Wireless and General Tele
graphy Syndicate, Limited, for the renewal of Lodge's patent
of 1897 for Improvements in Syntonised Telegraphy with
84 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON .

out Line Wires. In pronouncing his decision, the judge

remarked that the patent was a great advance upon the

Marconi patent of 1896, and that the patentee had been

inadequately remunerated, partly because the owners had

been seriously hampered by the Post Office monopoly, which

prevented them from obtaining the licence necessary for

working the system in this country.

Lodge wrote to Thompson :

I"   MY"  DEAR S. P.        T.,   the  proof       "March llth, 1911.
             have just      read              that you sent me on
Points in Early History. It is an extraordinarily able pro
Iduction, bringing out the essential features with great skill
and knowledge.              could not have done it nearly so well.
IYou certainly have a genius for matters of scientific history,

and am grateful to you for your help."

When the pamphlet was complete he wrote :

" The case you make out is impressive, and the amount
Iof trouble you have taken over it is extraordinary, not to
speak of the great ability it displays.       should think that
some day it ought to be published. My own statement too
might be published, but yours is the more valuable as being
independent of what people will suppose to be bias caused

by personal interest."

   There remain to be mentioned one or two other public

lectures of some importance. At the Meeting of the British

Association at Ipswich in 1895, Thompson delivered one of

the  t"wMo agenveetniisnmg  lectures to the members.   The subject
was                         in Rotation," a study of  the elaborate

development of polyphase machinery, from Arago's casual

observation in 1822 of the deadening effect of a copper plate

placed near a vibrating magnet, and Faraday's work on

eddying currents induced by a .revolving magnet. In

the light of modern knowledge he discussed the origin of

terrestrial magnetism and auroral phenomena. The magic

of magnetism had great fascination for him. It formed the

subject of many of his lectures, the Boyle Lecture at Oxford,

the three Tyndall Lectures at the Royal Institution in 1907,

and one in the same year at Bristol when he went back to
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 85

his old haunts to inaugurate a course of popular lectures at

University College. Two of his Friday Evening Discourses

at the Royal Institution were devoted to this subject,

the first, on "Magnetism in Transitu," was illustrated by

a cinematograph film taken from a long series of careful

diagrams drawn by hand to show the movements of magnetic

lines  of force.  "  His  last Discourse             before the    war, in         May
1913,   was on       The  Secret of the             Permanent      Magnet          "
                                                                                        ;  a

very excellent title, for the secret was not to be disclosed in his

day and generation, though he worked hard to lay it bare.

Of his courses of public lectures on electrical subjects, by

far the most important were his Cantor Lectures of 1 882 on

"Dynamo-Electric Machinery," and of 1890 on "The

Electromagnet." Both of these were published, and after

wards were expanded into substantial volumes. The

lectures were very much appreciated by the limited audiences

that were able to attend them, but their significance is small

compared with that of the books which are living yet.

                          II. PUBLICATIONS

In October 1879 Thompson sent to Mr. Norman Lockyer,

for insertion in Nature, some notes on physical subjects

which met  with cordial               approval,      and he was               invited to
undertake  " a Physical               Column,       on somewhat                the same

lines as our astronomical column and meteorological notes,"

to begin in the new volume, when Nature entered upon the

second decade of its existence. He had already undertaken

some reviews for the journal, and his capabilities as a writer

were therefore not unknown to the editor. He was to com

pile  ftrhoemcoelxucmenrptfsrofmrommaPtoegrgiaelndsuoprfpf'lsied"  to him by  the  office,
and                                                                Annalen "  and  other

foreign serials. This column was not continued for more

than about a year, but Thompson was for several years a

forneq"uePnhtysciocsntwribituhtoourt  of articles.  Amongst        these were      some
                                      Apparatus,"    which it      was at one      time

suggested by      the  "  publishers might suitably be collected
into a volume     for     The Nature Series," but the suggestion

was never carried out.

The first book Thompson undertook to write was also
86 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

never completed. He thought that there was a need in

England for a book equivalent to Miiller-Pouillet's French
" Textbook of Physics," and he had a great desire to publish

some such student's manual.

Independently he approached Messrs. Macmillan & Co.

on the subject, at the same time offering to lay before them

another proposal respecting an Elementary Treatise on

Electricity and Magnetism for their School Class Book Series.

The publishers expressed themselves frankly unwilling to

take the venture of the bigger book, for, though they heard

favourable expectations as to his future from all they con

sulted, they were not yet able to regard him as certain to

turn out what would be a standard textbook of the subject.

They were, however, willing to entertain the idea of the

smaller work on electricity and magnetism, and Thompson
set to work diligently upon his congenial task. At the

time of his marriage in March 1881 he had completed the

writing, and was busy with the proof correcting, a task

with which his wife was able to assist him, having had
training in it from her father, whom she had helped in

connection with his writings on economic subjects.

By the end of January 1882, when the book had barely

been out two months, and neither the educational nor the

scientific and technical journals had yet published reviews,

the publisher wrote to  tell him  that  rheepsrihnotu, ldaltbheopurgehp,ari"ngof
necessary alterations   in case   of a

course, we cannot expect the sale to go on at the same rate."

This anticipation was quite wrong. The book was reprinted

twice in 1882, and altogether sixteen times in the twelve

succeeding years. It met with an immediate appreciation

from many of his scientific friends. Almost the very day

that he received his copy, Oliver Lodge sent a postcard :

  I" The                                "November 9th, 1881.

p. 23.' [anti-] vivisectionists will  be down upon    you ; see
         have written to inform.                      textbook
                                       It will be my

henceforth."

1 P. 23 bore " the delightful picture of the Italian gentleman with wavy

hair, taper fingers, and a three-legged and be-tailed cat-skin, presiding
over an electrophone."
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 87

In February following he wrote at greater length :

I"
DEA" R         THOMPSON,             to hear of the success     of your book,
               am delighted
I IFlareat silva ! wish could get through an edition in a
I Ifew months.
Iit some time.              have been thinking should like to review

                            could send a notice to The Electrician any
I I Itim"e,but
         have        daresay you would prefer Nature.               not           it
                     not noticed much to correct.
                                                             have           read
Iyet, but only glanced at it. Several points have noticed
I Iwhich liked much. Page 200 (bottom) : don't think
you should even suggest that this is a paradox. Potential
and surface density do not pretend to be connected.
                     dV
Density       oc            not  V.
                     3-- ,
"

II I"
         don't think have noticed a thing else.
         was asked just lately to write an elementary Electricity,
I Ibut told the people it was too late, and that couldn't
Ihope to beat your book (nor indeed to equal it).                           would

write a big book for them if they liked, but in elementary

Iboo"ks  yours had the field to itself.             as  you  may judge          from
         am fearfully busy just now,

enclosed prospectus [Liverpool, University College]. Please

send     m"e  one of yours.

              With kind regards,     yours          sincerely,  J.

                                                        "O.         LODGE."
  I" recognise your handwriting in Engineering. . . .
I am not very satisfied with my latest test-tube Daniells.1
They work well when first set up, but the glass gets dry after.
You must not depend on the conduction of a film of moisture

on glass."

It was the compactness of the volume that was perhaps

i"tsYogrueahtaevset  achievement. Professor Riicker wrote to                    him,
                                                                                once
concise and          certainly succeeded remarkably in          "beSiuncgh  at  class
                     clear "; and Professor Frankland,                       a

Ibook was much wanted ; you seem to have made it clear,

concise, and practical, and predict for it a large sale."

From the business men also he received tribute. Joseph

W. Swan wrote :

  I" have only had time to glance through it, but it is only

necessary to do so in order to see that it fills a place in

                                     1 See p. 137.
88 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Iscience literature till now almost vacant, and much needing
to be filled.  have often been asked if such a thing existed ,
and had to answer ' No.' You have the art of clear exposi
tion, and one has only to read the first paragraph of your
book to realise what a pleasure it must be to learn lessons
with you for teacher."

   Professor Carey Foster wrote :'

  I" b'ke the book very much indeed. You have managedis
Ito bring it up to a much higher level than anything of theis,

same kind existing hitherto, and doubt not it will be recogis
nised as the book on the subject."

  It did virtually become the book. How completely this

is true may be gathered from the reviews of the last edition
in 1914. For instance, The Electrician wrote :

   " This volume is a new edition of a book that needs no

recommendation. The book is probably more widely used
than any other on the subject, and beyond question, well
known to most of our readers. The first edition was pub
lished nearly thirty-five years ago, and after being re
printed eighteen times, a *ew edition appeared in 1895.
This edition was reprinted no less than twenty-one times.

   "We venture to think that the book owes much of its

popularity to the fact that the author an experienced
teacher. As such he able to present the several branches
of the subject in logical sequence, and to give the exact
amount of information required by a beginner. The latter
will not regard his education as complete when he has
finished reading Thompson,' but being properly grounded
he will be able to turn to more ambitious works. For this
reason Elementary Lessons in Electricity and Magnetism
may be regarded more as an institution than as a mere book."

The early reviews were unanimous as to the usefulness,

attractiveness, and reliability of the little volume. Thompson

was rather disappointed that the scientific papers were so
slow in noticing at any length.
J.

                   it
                           it

                                                        a
However, in April the review appeared in Nature signed

O. L. Whilst ending with strong recommendation

to teachers to adopt    at once as their textbook, the

comments passed were throughout in different style from
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 89

those of all the other reviews ; some of the most enlightening
are quoted :

" The historical statements indicate by little additional
details that they have not been simply copied from the
joint-stock property of textbook writers, but that some
original authorities have been referred to. The author's
statements of the well-worn facts are moreover interspersed

with notes and characteristic touches which redeem them

"Iffrom dulness.

          it is necessary to say anything by way of general
criticism, it is that the author sometimes shows a disposi
tion to theorise a little too baldly, and to state without

qualification, and with an air of certainty and completeness,
views concerning the nature of electricity, which though
undoubtedly they have some truth in them, i.e. which
certainly are steps towards the truth, yet have no finality
about them, and which require to be cautiously worded
and expressed lest they should mislead. For instance, his
statements in the preface that ' electricity is not two but
one ' ; that, ' whatever it                         not matter and not
'
                'energy,' that

           it

                                          is,

                                   it

                                                is
                            may be heaped up in some places and
will do work in returning to its former level distribution,'

are all, considered strictly, unjustifiable dogmas of the kind

we have mentioned.

   "Neither are we altogether disposed to approve of the
phrase conservation of electricity,' by which the author

see"msHotwoevseert,  much    store.  doctrines   are immense  improve
                       all  these

ments on the old forms of the fluid theory, and, being steps
towards truth, will probably do far more good than harm.
We are fully impressed with the necessity in teaching of
getting some ideas into the heads of the students to begin
with, and of polishing them up as much as possible

afte"rwOanrdthse. whole, then, while we have not been able to find

any statement which certainly and distinctly wrong, we
,

                           is
                                     is

                                             is
find a very great deal which                     not only certainly and

distinctly right, but which also exactly that concerning
which a real student desires, but has hitherto been unable
to obtain, information."

   His friend Professor G. F. FitzGerald of Dublin wrote to
him concerning the method of teaching referred to by
90 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Lodge in this review. He had seen the proofs of the book
at the British Association at York in the summer, and

found that the complete volume quite came up to the high

expectations he had formed :

  I" am particularly pleased with your idea of giving three

elementary all-round chapters to begin with, and am
thinking of arranging my lectures next term on that

Iprinciple, at least as an experiment to see how it works, as

presume you cannot patent an idea of that kind."

   The  p"hsreatsemu"cchonstsoerreva"tiownas  of electricity "  by which the
author                                                          a considerable
                                              the outcome of

amount of reading and thought. Just when his book was

in the press, Thompson was made acquainted with some

work of Monsieur G. Lippmann of Paris, published in

Comptea Rendus. In his preface Thompson had claimed

to be the first to enunciate the doctrine under this title, but

after seeing this earlier paper he            appended a        "foeoletngaontet
                                              Lippmann's
referring to the prior   publication of
analytical statement    " of the same         view, independently

reached.

As the practical applications of electricity began to be

realised, interest in theories as to its nature was revived.

Thompson was roused to speculations initially by gaining

close familiarity with Clerk Maxwell's theory, and by the

hope of establishing the true nature t>f electricity by experi

ment. Accepting the idea of the universal presence of

electricity, electrification      "beimingponadsetraatbeleof flpuoisdse"sseiolenctorifcittoyo,
much or too little of the

he tabulated all the facts available from published accounts

of experiments which threw any light on the question as to

whether the vitreous or the resinous, the so-called positive

and negative electrifications of Franklin, were the true

excess. In particular, analogies with the theories of radia

t"iotnhelesdtatheimof  to state,  with some   degree of conviction, that
                        resinous  (negative)  electrification corresponds

in reality to that of excess, or to a true    plus  pealepcetrrifoicnat"ioTnh."e
These speculations he expounded fully         in a

Conservation of Electricity and the Absolute Scale of
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 91

Potential," which he submitted to the Royal Society. Dr.
Spottiswoode conferred with Professor Stokes on the merits
of the paper, and reported that, notwithstanding the interest

which attached to his views of the subject, the paper was of

a more speculative character than such as were usually
published in the Proceedings, and recommended it as more
suited to the Philosophical Magazine, where in due time it

appeared.
   When the book was largely rewritten in 1 894, the preface

containing these theories disappeared, and a short paragraph
on the contemporary position as to theory was inserted in

the text, the new preface being devoted to outlining the
chief developments in theory and practice which the
thirteen years had witnessed. When twenty years later the
work was completely revised for a second time, it was again
the latter half of the book, dealing with the industrial appli
cations of electricity, that required remodelling, though
throughout the work the modern conception of elec
trons as the substance of electricity was borne in mind.

Thompson's second daughter, Helen, who as a Newnham

student had studied Physics at the Cavendish Laboratory,

rendered him some assistance with this part of the work.

The review in Nature   refers to the chapter on  Etolec"trcoonmspraessas
welcome addition, the  author having managed

into a dozen pages as much information on this subject as

is usually contained in books of much larger size." In this

he had previously achieved mastery, having contributed

articles   on Electricity to Harmsworth's    wSeitlfh-Ed"uTchateorN, ataunred
having    dealt in one short weekly section

of Electricity."

His 1914 volume brought him a tribute from his former

student and secretary, who had done much to help him
with the former revision, Miles Walker, now a Professor

at the University of Manchester :

   " This book will always be to me the authority for first

principles. The simple figures have formed in the mind,
images which stand for the laws they illustrate. With
thousands of readers it must be the same long after they have
passed on to other books. The fascination which lies in the
92 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

study of natural laws has been caught by you, and caged in
these pages, so that as one turns them over it peeps out

Iand lures fresh readers to give their lives to things electrical.
  wonder how many engineers you have won already. There
will be many, many more in the future, and the new chapters
will add to the spell."

   Those who fell under the spell of the book were not
Englishmen only. From the beginning it was largely
bought in America ; from France, Germany, Italy, Sweden,
Poland, Spain, and Japan, came letters from those anxious
to obtain permission to translate the book, so that others in

those countries might benefit.

   The Cantor Lectures mentioned above (p.* 85), and in

addition those on Arc Lamps of a later day, were pub
lished in full by the Society of Arts. After the lectures
on Dynamo-Electric Machinery, Thompson received in
January 1883 the following, in a letter from Mr. W. M.

Mordey (later President of the Institution of Electrical

Engineers) :

"DEA"RYoSuIRr ,Cantor Lectures were a decided boon, and to
Ihave them in full and well illustrated as they appear in the

Society's Journal is a great treat. Everywhere hear them
spoken of as what was wanted on the subject, and as the
perfection of ' plain, unvarnished ' explanation. After the
Ithick coats of ' varnish ' so painfully familiar to young
' searchers after truth ' like myself,             assure you we

Iapp"rechiaatvee  your   straightforward work.     ...   your  sugges
                  some  further results springing
                                                   from
Itions, and hope to send you an account soon.
                                                               believe
I shall have an opportunity of getting curves of Edison

and several other machines shortly.'-'

This letter shows the sort of impression Thompson

produced on men in the electrical industry the first time

he came up to London to lecture to them. Professor John

Perry, writing    :ab"oLuet t  some machinery   in which he had an
interest, added                me congratulate  you on the immense
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 93

amount of information              you   have been able to put     into
your lectures " ; and he,          like  others, took for granted  that

they would be published in compact form.

The reprint very rapidly reached a distant public. Spare

copies were in request on the Continent ; an American

reprint, with slight additions, was produced unauthorised ;

and from Paris came the following letter in July 1883 :

" MO"NSAItEtUaRc,he & la Maison Siemens freres de Paris,

j'ecris dans quelques journaux scientifiques et publie en ce
moment dans 1'un d'eux la Traduction de votre remarquable
travail ' On Dynamo- Electric Machinery ' (Cantor Lectures).
J'aurais peut-etre 1'intention de faire de cette traduction une
Bro"cJheurveouss^psaererae,is
                               et viens vous en  demander   1'autorisation.
                                reconnaissant,   monsieur,  de vouloir bien

m'honeur d'une reponse, et vous prie d'agreer la respec-

tueuse expression de mon entier d6vo"ueEmMeILnt.BOISTEL."

Thus introduced himself the Frenchman who translated

all Thompson's works on Electricity, and was henceforth

in constant correspondence with him. After their first

meeting  vhiseitwfarsomalwhaisys"  hoping for an  occasion which should
bring a                            cher maitre,"  to whom he professed

profound attachment, and in whose affairs both public and

private he took a continual interest.

The demand for the book became more and more urgent,

and during the next two years Thompson was busy in his

spare time collecting material to add to his lectures.

  In February 1884 he wrote to his wife from London :

  I" have had a busy day. First the Safety Lamp affairs.
I. . . We meet again next Saturday. After this inter
viewed Alexander Siemens about progress in dynamos.

IThen went into the City and called at the Telephone Co.'s
Ioffice ; after which went out by train to Chelmsford to
Isee Mr. Crompton's works and his new Dynamo- Electric
machines and lamps.                came back about 6 p.m., called on
IProf. Hughes, and on an instrument maker about some

apparatus. Then had some dinner, and after that went
94 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

to the Royal Institution to hear Max Miiller lecture. Here
I ImosmawentH. ughItesis
                    again, and     Tyndall,           the latter     only for a
                    very curious   how the           principles      enunciated

eighteen months ago are proving to be solid in practice.
IAll the makers are remodelling their dynamo-electric

machines in agreement with the principles laid down."

The reviews were quick in appearing when the book was

published, and were full of congratulations and thanks for

the manner in which the author had supplied the wants of

students. The book found no rival in the field in its earlier

teidtiiotinon, s",  but even in the absence of the stimulus           of compe
                                                                     favourable
reviews,            n"eivnetrh,"e  declared one amongst the many     has a more
                                   whole history of applied science

satisfactory first step been made."

  It was required at once in foreign countries as well as in

America, and there was no lack of offers to translate it into

diverse tongues. Only the French translation of the first

edition was effected, for          af"tecropeyig"ht   months   the publishers
were already demanding                               for the  second edition.

Even in the short time that elapsed before this was prepared

considerable advances in theory and practice had to be

recorded, and the volume increased by over 100 pages, and

by nearly as many diagrams. One item that evoked

particular interest was the elaboration of t)r. Hopkinson's

method of studying "characteristic curves" obtained from

de1 ya8nr6la4y,mwdoishs,iccohvaenprdryecaeondfoetdthhetehr e"wbreainsttgeTra-hkromnmoawtpusnroe"n'"Gs rabrmeyfmePreeanccmineaoctthtoiine'thine"

by some years, but was then unknown even to his com

patriots, the Italian engineers. The book received praise

for the excellence of its index, a feature to which Thompson

attached great importance in all his books.                          " better
   The work grew ; each edition was pronounced

than its predecessor, and that is saying a great deal," as

Professor Ayrton wrote to him about the third. The novel

feature in this edition was a chapter containing historical

    1 Pacinotti, Professor at Pisa University. Thompson first met him
when visiting Pisa during his extended Easter vacation in 1892. See

p. 223.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 95

notes, which some found extremely interesting because it

gave the most complete list of workers in this field that had

yet been published.

On August 29th, 1 888, he received the following letter from

W. H. Snell, editor of The Electrician :

  I" I )K"AHOfDcRo.ursTeHOMaPmSOsNor,ry that you were not able to send
Ime the papers on graphic constructions, but should have
been still more sorry   idf oyosuo.hadItsuisnkquinitteo
whilst labouring to                                                                            a premature grave
                                                                                               evident that you
Ihave got through an enormous amount of work this year,

and am totally at a loss to conceive how you find the time
to elaborate those exhaustive historical papers in the midst
of your educational duties -- to say nothing of research

Iwo"rk. am glad you are getting such a thoroughly laissez
faire holiday,1 and     gIreaamtlysoerrnyvythaytouyor uawbiilliltynottobecaartryBaothut,
such a programme.
but with the exception of Lodge, Ayrton, and Preece, no one
of very great electrical magnitude seems to intend to be
there. Preece is going to attack Dr. Lodge's mathematical

Lightning, so            we may expect something brilliant.
third edition            of Dynamo- Electric Machinery came
Ithe"oYryouorf
into my hands just as was leaving town (for four days),
and it was only after a severe struggle that my strict sense

Iof duty led me to leave it behind. Since my return have
Ibeen dipping into it at every spare moment, but don't
think any ' Review ' will appear quite immediately. It is

a grand piece of work."

The fourth edition in 1892 had expanded to a volume

traeipnfpegrruoreiasdchhtiinotgfarsom1",0T"0h0ethePpealegitertasle,ger,be"oduobnrdo"oktihn,"e  scarlet,       and jokingly

                                                                                               obrig"rLe.d   book," to dis

                                                                                                            R. B." as some

of his students called the Electricity and Magnetism. Much

of the former   work    had   been rewritten in                                                iht,op"esraothf emr amkoinrge
                or, as   one   friend described
it up-to-date,

than up-to-date on some points." The later editions were

published in two volumes, but even then it was found quite

   1 Thompson was at Glen Sannox in Arran, .VI!., with hia wife and four

small daughters, spending much time sketching. He did not attend the
British Association at Bath.
96 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

impossible to include the masses of information provided

by the rapid development of the industry. The historical
portion was compressed, and when his Cantor Lectures on
the Electromagnet were published in book form as one of

the Finsbury Technical Manuals, some portions of the

chapters on magnetical subjects were transferred to that
book, The Electromagnet and Electromagnetic Meclianisms,

J.to which his brother, Dr. Tatham Thompson of Cardiff,

contributed a chapter on the Use of the Electromagnet in
Surgery. " The book is admirably lucid, and many difficult

problems are successfully attacked. In several cases also

his conclusions have formed the starting-point for other

investigators, and the good seed he sowed has borne
abundant fruit." '
In 1895 much work with alternating currents was already

being done, both in England and America, and in the spring

Iof that year

York, wrote
             Mr. Martin,  of"  The Electrical Engineer  of New
            to Thompson,         am most heartily glad  you are
tackling the subject. It needed your master hand. There

is an infinite lot in the way a thing is done." The portion

of Dynamo- Electric Machinery referring to such work was

expanded into his book Polyphase Electric Currents and
Alternate Current Motors. This was immediately translated
into both French and German, as were also the two sub

sequent editions.

   Later he wished to expand his treatment of Design of
Dynamos, but it was agreed that this should be done in a

separate volume from Dynamo-Electric Machinery. A

great deal of the work for this new book was done during

a long wet summer holiday in North Wales. The author

sat in the  circle of his family,  dorfadwiainggramwsh, atof a"ppbeoaorsetdersto"
them to be  a never-ending series

and other unfamiliar machines, while Great Expectations

and other novels were read aloud to him.                "

  IfOf Dynamo-Electric Machinery it was written :

Professor Thompson had done nothing else, this invaluable

book would serve as his enduring monument." *

1 Extract from Journal of Inst.E.E. vol. Iv, p. 549.
- -/'/-- Electrical Engineer, 1892.
    CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 97

    But in the publication of such a work there was all the

ordinary labour involved in going to press, and in addition
the difficulties arising from the active rivalries of the

persons and firms whose inventions and productions were

to be described.

    When one of the editions appeared, the author was at

once assailed by an engineer on behalf of his design and

hmisenftiriomn'esdexaescu"tionnowof  baeinnugmrbeeprlaocfeden"ginbeys,  which  Thompson
                                                                        those  of another

firm. Usually so extremely careful to verify and test

every statement, Thompson was very reluctant to believe

himself misinformed, and guilty of misinforming others.

The charge entailed inquiry, correspondence, both private

and in the technical Press, the stoppage of the issue of the
book, and the cancelling of a sheet to replace it by a

corrected one.

  In 1902 a much more troublesome affair arose in the
preparation of the sixth edition--namely, the case in the

Chancery Division known as Wilde v. Thompson, which

aroused considerable interest among electricians and authors

of scientific works. It delayed the book for so long that

Thompson published a lengthy explanation in The Electrician.
                     eDnrj.oyHethneryreWpiuldtaet,ioFn.R".So.f,
he  The unfortunate                                                     believed that
     alone should "                                                     being the in

ventor of the dynamo-electric machine, whereas, in common

practice among engineers and others, the term "dynamo-

electric machine" was used to cover many machines

besides the type invented by Wilde. From 1899 onwards,

Dr. Wilde protested that his reputation was being destroyed

successively by the Institution of Electrical Engineers and

the Society of   Arts, which         "  both   had honoured                    him for                                                           h"is
original work,  but not for             the   invention of the                 dynamo                                                                  ;

he could not let the matter rest. All Thompson's

endeavours to meet Dr. Wilde's demands without com

mitting himself to what seemed to him false statements

failed, and the case dragged on, entailing endless worry

and expense.

  In December 1902 Thompson was feeling very depressed

    7

       it,

                                                                                                                                              :
about and wrote as follows to Sir William Crookes
98 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

I" think I told you that poor old Wilde had brought an
Iaasct'iothneaignavinesnttomr eoffothrelibdeyln, abmeoc.a' useIt                       will not describe him
                                                                                       is a libel -- a malicious
libel-- even to say that poor Faraday, when near his end,
' took an interest in the description of Wilde's new magneto-
electric machine,' because thereby the said Plaintiff ' is

J.deprived of the credit of being the inventor of the dynamo.'
"Now, you described the Wilde machine in Q.                                                               Sci.

for October 1867 in precisely those terms which are now
a malicious libel. Could you tell me this, whether Wilde
at that date ever objected to this name being given to his
                                    you to call it a ' dynamo                                             '
or whether he wanted
                                                                                                             ?
 ill and worried, or
I Ima"chinaem,                      would come myself to ask
Iyou. Pray forgive my troubling you. am in the middle
of preparing my defence. Wilde has retained our friend
Fletcher Moult on to fight his case."

Eventually in March 1903, eleven months after the

start, it was heard on a motion to dismiss the action as

frivolous, on the ground that the Statement of Claim l

showed no reasonable ground for action. Judgment was

lg"ibivIetelnwboeiniunlgdThtbeoermmanepdseovn"il'spduafrayev,oniuofrn,itsewwnesiterhe  "co; satns,d  the  complaint of
                                                                                                     the  judge added,

                                                                                       the law, that if one man

make a concession to another man for the sake of peace,

the result is that there is a contract upon which the one

can sue the other for specific performances or damages."

Despite this result the case was carried by Wilde to the

Appeal Court, where it was heard six months later, when

it was again practically laughed out of court. It was, how

ever, no laughing matter to the defendant, and he had

many sympathisers, among them the editors of Murray's

New Oxford Dictionary, which publication contained an
article on the Dynamo that brought the threat of a similar

action against its perpetrators. Thompson had often had

queries from the editor on questions of scientific terms,

both at this time, and from Sir James Murray himself on

1 The Statement of Claim asked for                                                     an injunction to restrain the
;

                                                (i)
                                                                                                                    ;
publication of Dynamo-Electric Machinery, (ii) to restrain S. P. T. from
making any mention of Wilde, hia discoveries and inventions, in Dynamo-

Electric Machinery otherwise than in accordance with the agreed proof

(iii) damages (iv) ooeta.
   CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 99

other occasions. The following letter from Mr. Henry
Bradley is one of many :

       "'New ENGLISH DICTIONARY'

                                              " OLD  ASHM"ODLEecAeNmb"eLrIOBXR1FA9ORthRY,D,. 1903,

I"
DE"AR  PROF. THOMPSON,

       enclose two sets of proofs of the Magnet articles
Iin the latest stage so far reached. One copy send in
order that you may keep it for reference. The other copy
please return with any remarks or corrections you may be
Iable to make. (You see, the penalty of doing a kind action

freely is to be asked to do more ! But am anxious not to
be too exacting.) The slips include the words from Magnet
I Ionw" ardhsa, dwhaicvhisitthfirnokmhathvee
                                              not been sent  to you before. . . .
                                                             [Wilde] yesterday.
                                              new D.C.L.

He was in a quite amiable mood, perhaps mollified by his
Ireception in Oxford.
                       asked him to name any scientific
Iman of the first rank to whom could go in order to obtain
Ian opinion free from the bias which he attributed to the

authorities whom had consulted. His reply was : ' Ah,
                                              ' you may guess the rest.
I Iwell, you see, unfortunately
said that, being myself ignorant of science, could not pre
sume to constitute myself judge in a scientific controversy,

I Inor could accept him as judge in his own cause ; was
I Ibound to consult the most competent and impartial authori
ties could, and to follow their advice.                      gave him a copy
of my proof, and promised to consider any suggestions,
and also to omit any quotation which he thought damaging
to his reputation. This morning he came in again with the
... Iproofs
       we parted in all friendliness, though should
not wonder if there is trouble when Dr. Wilde comes to
consider things at his leisure."

   In his defence 1 published in The Electrician, Thompson

wrote :

   " No self-respecting man- could have consented to insert
in his book, as though they were true, statements which he

found to be false, even though furnished to him by a re
spected and aged inventor, who supposed them to be true.

   1 Never heard in either law court, but elaborately'prepared  in case of
need.
100 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

I preferred the worry and the waste of time and money
Iinseparable from a Chancery suit, knowing full well that,

when should have succeeded in my defence against this
monstrous attack, the English law could award me no
damages to compensate me for the inevitable loss."

   Before leaving the subject of Thompson's books, let the
verdict on his largest technical work be given in the words
of one of his old Finsbury men :

  I" wish to thank you for the new edition of your Dynamo-

Electric Machinery. Your book is in great request at our
works. Every now and again some member of the staff
creeps into the Engineering Office, where we have a copy,
and asks in a subdued tone of voice if he may borrow the new
edition of 'Thompson.' There is a charm about the book,
with its illustrations and clear explanations, that makes
every student of electricity long to have a copy."

  In the first " Silvanus P. Thompson Memorial Lecture " l
delivered to the Rontgen Society in April 1918, Professor

Sir Ernest Rutherford spoke thus :

I" would like to express the debt which I, and I am sure
Imany other scientific men in this audience, owe to his
admirable textbooks.  gained my first knowledge of

electricity from Elementary Lessons, that remarkable and

perennial book which has served to interest and instruct
scientific youth, and even middle age, in all parts of the
world. This work is marked by that clearness, simplicity,
and charm which is so characteristic  of all his writings and
                                      speak, on Elementary
Ilectures. If was suckled, so to
ILessons, cut my first teeth on Dynamo- Electric Machinery,
Iand can well recall the strong impression left on me by

the exceedingly clear, simple, and logical statement of the

Iessentials of a complex subject. In this connection, call
Ito mind a conversation had some ten years ago in New

York with an editor of a well-known technical journal,
apropos of the rapid growth of electrical engineering in
U.S.A. He remarked on the eagerness and almost excite
ment with which the publication and first arrival of S. P.
Thompson's Dynamo-Electric Machinery was awaited in his
country, and the strong influence this book had exerted in

1 Journal of the Rontgen Society, No. 56, vol. adv.
   CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 101

leading to a correct understanding of the fundamental facts
and theories on which the science of electrical engineering
is based."

III. RESEARCHES, INVENTIONS, AND COMMUNICATIONS TO

                                          SOCIETIES

Thompson's first communication to the Royal Society

was   not made until       w1a8s84r,eawdhetnhearep--apveizr .,inaco"nnNeoctteionon  with
his  electrical work                                                                 the

Theory of the Magnetic Balance of Hughes." The instru

ment had been recently described by its inventor, Professor

D. E. Hughes, F.R.S., and was considered likely to be of

great convenience and usefulness for work in the laboratory ;
it had, however, only been graduated by empirical deter

minations for a small number of values, the remainder to be

found by interpolation. Thompson worked out a formula

for its graduation, and submitted it to Hughes, from whom

he received the following letter :                 " January l&th, 1884.
                                       this evening, and as shall

                                        wish at once to express my
I I" DEA"R
     PROF. THOMPSON,
     have received yours
Ibe very busy the next few days
Isincere thanksfor the formula you have              Iktindselyemssenpt efrofrecthtley
               the magnetic balance.
graduation of
correct, although believe it might be reduced to a simpler

exp"reTshseionre. al difficulty is this --we cannot have the distance

a constant. . . - . If you have the time and find the formula

for all cases please publish a paper on the subject, either
at the Royal Society or elsewhere ; it would be extremely

Iuse"fuAl.t present        am too busily engaged with molecules to
Ido anything until have got hold of one of them and
dem" oWnistthratemdanitys
                           existence.  believe  me,  with the highest
                           thanks,

expressions of esteem,                            " In h"asYteo,urs,
                                                "D. E. HUGHES."
102 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Thompson continued to work at the formula and report

progress, receiving constant encouragement from the older
man, who knew that it was sufficiently important for others

/also to  be engaged on the  soafme"  work, but who always wrote
          own eager pursuit
of his    have." He gladly   acted    a  "maoslescpuolnes, oran"d   a   molecule
   must                                                                 the note
                                                                   for

for the Royal Society, and saw to its publication in the

Proceedings.

Enough has been said in other chapters of Thompson's

earlier researches connected with improvements in appara

tus, communicated to the Physical Society of London, and

of his inventions of telephone details, and of the magnetic
figures. His interest in influence machines has been men

tioned in connection with his friendship with Wimshurst,

and his own    pamphlet   on the history  of the subject ;              he"
               Modified  Water-dropping   Influence Machine
described " A

in the Philosophical Magazine in 1888.

   The outstanding researches of the years     1883-6                   "wTehree
published in the Philosophical Magazine,    one on

Graphic Representation of the Law of Efficiency of an

Electric Motor," and several on the fundamental principles

of the Electromagnet and Dynamo, and the mathematical

theories and formulae which express the essential physical

basis of all practical construction of these machines. They

bore witness to his careful study of contemporary Con

tinental work on the subject. One of these papers in the

Philosophical Magazine was translated into German, and

appeared in Exner's Repertorium der Physik, 1886.
    1888-91 were the years of most active interest in electro

magnetic problems, which were the subject of his Cantor
Lectures and of his presidential address in 1890 to the
Junior Engineering Society, now the Junior Institution of

Engineers. It was in connection with this subject that he

became so eagerly interested in the work of William Sturgeon

the electrician, and set about unearthing all existing records

of the discoveries and personality of that remarkable English
worthy, who, escaping in early youth from a position of

poverty and degradation, as apprentice to an unworthy
shoemaker, to the comparative leisure of a private soldier
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 103

in the Royal Artillery, educated himself in natural philo

sophy, and particularly in electrical science, to such purpose

and extent that, later on, making his own apparatus, and

writing clearly of his researches, he was able to communicate

at least one of these to the Royal Society.

A few years later Thompson again devoted a considerable

amount of time to problems of magnetism, working in con

junction with Mr. Miles Walker, his pupil, assistant, and

secretary. Together they presented papers to the Physical

Society reporting  their  experiments       a"ndElecocntrcilcusiTonras.ctionThebiyr
most important     piece  of work on

Surface Contacts," which they described to the British Asso
ciation, Section G, was reprinted in The Electrician in 1898.

At that time everyone was disgusted by the weight and

the rapid deterioration of accumulator cells ; many local
authorities objected to overhead wires, and tramway

companies wished to avoid the expense of continuous con

duits with open slots. A great many plans for surface con

tacts had been already devised, but all had their defects.

Thompson and Walker designed a system which they believed

combined the advantages of the earlier inventions, but

overcame their lack of safety or lack of power. The

engineering firm Baker & Sons of Willesden, the heads of

which were Quaker friends of Thompson, assisted him by

the construction of an experimental tramline near their

works at Willesden Junction, where the various suggested

arrangements were put to practical tests. In the end the

inventors were satisfied that their peculiar system of isolated

metal studs, from which the vehicles picked up electric power

as they went along, did answer in the affirmative the three
                          Is possible to lay surface
fundamental questions :
                          ?

                                 (i)

                                        it
contacts in a roadway, so that they do not cause any

obstruction to traffic (ii) Is the method of picking up
current from studs by means of a skate on the vehicle
feasible under practical working conditions --e.g., wet, mud,

street refuse such as paper, etc. (iii) Can the studs beis ?
made perfectly safe, so that there no possibility of current

being accidentally drawn from them in the absence of           a

tram  ?
104 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

In the following year, Mr. Walker read to the Institution

of Electrical Engineers, of which he was then an associate,
a paper on the work he and Mr. C. E. Holland had done

at Willesden under Thompson's direction. The verdict of
that body was favourable, and it is suggested by Dr.

Alexander Russell l that the system might have become

popular had the local authorities in this country made a

firmer stand against the erection of overhead wires.

Patents were taken out, and with his usual optimism,

Thompson was full of hopes of the adoption of their scheme

for some locality where the simpler and less expensive over

head wires were unsuitable. This venture, however, was no

more successful than his others, and the financial outlay

was a loss serious enough to check all further attempts of

this kind.

Of later technical work there remain two important sub
j"ecNtsotteos moenntiRoont. atoIrny
                                     The Electrician of  1894 he published           his
                                       Field Motors,"    compiled for the            use

of Finsbury students, and printed as being probably of

service to others in aiding their comprehension of the

operation of this little understood class of machinery. A

few years later he read to the Electrical Engineers a long

paper on Rotatory Convertors, which was considered of

such importance that a second evening was devoted to its

discussion. During this several speakers agreed in the

view that Dr.   Thompson              was the    fpirasltatasbylsetemfoartmic.ally"  to
elaborate and  present the           subject in                                      To

many no small part of their present knowledge of the subject
was first given in this paper." '

1 The Journal oflrut.E.E., vol. Iv, p. 549.

3 It was on the occasion of this debate that Thompson gave utterance

Ito a very characteristic                                         of the   value of
                                                                  protest   against
words. Many speakers
               euxsperdes"siBonotaorfy.v"iews"  on the   subject
                                                Lastly,  let me
the insinuation that in using the good old adjective ' rotatory ' have

 altered the English language. The old English language has many
- adjectives like ' rotatory,' ' explanatory,' ' inflammatory,' ' sanatory,"

Iand ' undulatory,' but do not think any of those adjectives would be
Iimproved by cutting out what might seem an unnecessary syllable.
Ithink such clipping would not add either dignity or literary --perhaps

    ought to say ' litary '--form to any communication that might be
written in such an abbreviated language."
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 105

His last work in this field was a prolonged research upon

the magnetism of permanent magnets. He published
several papers between 1909 and 1915 on his own work

and that of his student secretary, Mr. Ernest Moss, under
his direction ; and lectured to the Institution of Electrical

Engineers at the great Glasgow meeting of that body in

1912. At the time of his death he was preparing a book

on Permanent Magnets, part of which was outlined as a
historical study drawn from the resources of his own
library, leading up to a much needed exposition of the
most recent work on the subject.

   Another phenomenon which always fascinated Thompson,
and at which he worked from time to time, was the curious

dust figures of Lichtenberg, obtained by sifting mixtures
of red lead and sulphur upon 'plates of shellac or glass on to

which electricity has been discharged. They formed the
subject of a Preliminary Note to the Royal Society in 1895,

but further work on the nature of electric discharges was

then postponed by his ardent pursuit of the newly-dis

covered Rontgen Rays (see Chapter X) ; and he does not
seem to have investigated the matter further, though it was

not lost sight of, and was included in the subjects of the

l"asTtheof  his Royal Institution Discourses, in March 1916, on
            Corona and Other Forms of Electric Discharge,"

when he displayed, with his usual delight, the extraordinary

and brilliant stellate or dendritic patterns to be obtained

by scattering various electroscopic powders on sparked
surfaces, and endeavoured to apply the knowledge con
cerning the nature of the electric discharge so obtained to
practical questions such as have to be faced in attempts to

transmit electricity from central stations at tremendously

high voltage.

  In connection with his work on alternating electric

currents, Thompson developed a lively practical interest

in that branch of mathematics known as Harmonic Analysis.

In 1904 he read a paper to the Physical Society which

showed his familiarity with many of the various attempts
of mathematicians to simplify the methods of this analysis,

and he described in his paper, and later in The Electrician
106 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

for the benefit of technical workers, " A Rapid Approximate

Method of Harmonic Analysis." He continued to work at

this for  some years, and in 1911  presented  a  to"   the Physical
Society   a second paper on what   he called           New Method

of Approximate Harmonic Analysis." This method was

also described in a paper read before a Swedish Society a

few months later, and printed in the Arkiv for Matematik,
Astronomi och Fysik of Upsala and Stockholm. The method

is described in eight short pages, quite as obscure as Chinese

to the lay mathematical mind, but evidently appreciated

by those with sufficient training to follow its argument ;

and in June 1914 he was requested to allow his method,

with its scheduled forms, to be incorporated in the Hand

book of an exhibition of forms for facilitating Harmonic

Analysis, at the Napier Tercentenary Celebrations held at

Edinburgh    thfarotmsuhmisme"r.collegue,"  Professor  G. Lippmann
   He heard

of the Sorbonne, that his paper had been presented to

the Acad6mie des Sciences, and accepted for incorporation

in the Complex Rendus, but was afterwards found to exceed

the prescribed length for that publication.

Thompson was anxious to have his method tested by

applications to practical data, and communicated with the

workers at the National Physical Laboratory at Richmond

and Bushy, who dealt with tide observations, and magnetic

and meteorological statistics, to which harmonic analysis

was occasionally applied.

Dr. Alexander Russell sent him several helpful criticisms

"Iof his papers, and drew his attention to some previous
work of Gauss, concluding :        think it adds to the value of

your method that a man like Gauss thought something like

"Iit deserving of the most serious study." Of the last paper
he wrote :   think that you have made it very hard for

anyone to simplify harmonic analysis any further."

The same friend wrote thus of Thompson's work in this

field : »

  " He loved music and had an accurate musical ear. The

valuable paper which he read to the Physical Society in

                       1 Journal oflnst.E.E., vol. Iv, p. £60.
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ELECTRICAL SCIENCE 107

1910 on ' Hysteresis Loops, and Lissajous' Figures ' was
a happy mixture of magnetism, sound, and mathematical

theorems. In solving mathematical problems and inventing

new mathematical theorems he took the keenest delight.
He did most excellent work, for instance, in simplifying
Runge's method of practical harmonic analysis. He was
dissatisfied, however, with the accuracy obtainable by this
method. He then invented a series method of harmonic
analysis. The writer remembers how pleased he was when
he first discovered it, and with what mutual pleasure we
discussed it. He greatly appreciated the lectures which
Dr. Kennelly of Harvard gave at the Institution some

years ago . In proposing a vote of thanks to him he expressed

himself, as usual, most happily. He said that he felt con
strained to exclaim, ' Great is the Hyperbolic Angle, and
Kennelly is its Prophet!'"

    Thompson took a keen interest in hyperbolic trigonometry,
and contemplated writing a little treatise on the subject,
which was to have been a companion volume to the
Calculus made Easy. He and his old student, Mr. Maurice
Gheury, had already partly planned the work in 1914, but
like much else it was cut short by the war.
                       CHAPTER VI
TELEPHONE RESEARCH AND " LIFE OF PTTTT.TPP REIS "

IT has already been mentioned that among the early re

searches of Thompson, the subject of Binaural Audition

had taken a very prominent place.

   Some work on the same lines had previously been done

by Lord Rayleigh in 1877. In a letter to Thompson of

           1w87ri9t,es,Dr".  Sedley Taylor, of Trinity College,
IFebruary                    am very glad you are going to take

Cambridge,

up this hitherto much neglected subject." Thompson

had before that published papers in 1877 and 1878, and

also had read a communication in French to the Congr6s de

Paris of   tuhnedeAr stshoecitaittlieonofFr"aSnucraidsees  pour 1'avancement des
Sciences,                                                  Phdnome'nes de 1' Audi
tion Binauriculaire " in the latter year.

During these researches he made use of the telephone

invented in 1876 by Graham Bell, and his attention was

attracted by this wonderful instrument, with its combina

tion of electrical and acoustical properties. He began

to try to work out a mathematical theory for it. In 1879

he had some correspondence with Graham Bell on the

subject, who wrote on March 7th :

" Your note of February 21st received ; the experiments
made by me in London on January 30th, 1878, with two
Ipair Telephones have not yet been published.
Icontinued those experiments.                              have

                                  am engaged just now in
Ipreparing a work upon the History of Electric Telephony.
   remember especially a communication having reference
to the phenomena of binaural audition observed by yourself.

I have made a note of this, and will forward the reference as
Isoon as can find it. . . ."

                             108
          TELEPHONE RESEARCH                                             109

In December he wrote again :

" Your two notes dated the 9th and 10th instant re
Ispectively received.
                       need not tell yon how much pleasure
Iit has given me to hear from you.  do hope that plenty of
Ittime and opportunity will now be given you for original
research in Bristol.   would be a shame to force you to
seek a professorship elsewhere, in order to have time to

carry on the valuable researches that are already bringing
your name into prominent notice on both sides of the

"IAtlantic.
         have been much interested in the Pseudophone, and
Ihave read your paper in the Philosophical Magazine for
October.  read a paper at the last meeting of the American

Association for the Advancement of Science, upon some
          reilnatirnegadtiongB. inauralIfAyuoduitiownouwldhiclhikeyotuo  would
experiments                                                               make

...be interested
Iuse of it in your monograph on Binaiiral Hearing shall be
glad to send you advanced sheets."

   The Pseudophone to which Mr. G. Bell referred was an

instrument invented by Thompson for investigating the
laws of Binaural Audition. He read an account of it before

Section A of the British Association at Sheffield. It

enabled him to study the subjective perception of two

sounds led separately to the ears and differing in pitch,

phase, or intensity.

   In January 1880, in the course of a long letter on the
same subject, A. Graham Bell writes :

I" should like to know more about your instrument for
analysing compound tones without using resonators ; when
you are prepared to make known the details of             a
remember my interest in the subject."                                    please
                                                                    it,
   This new instrument, also devised by Thompson, he

styled "A New Phonautograph." It was a distinct im

provement on the original Phonautograph invented in 1859

by Leon Scott de Martinville of Paris. It was intended

for investigating the quality of the consonantal sounds,
and enabled Thompson to carry out more exact records of

these than had been possible with the earlier instruments.
   About this time Graham Bell brought out very beautiful
110 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

little instrument called the Photophone.           Tonho"mWpsaovne,s               in
lecturing to the Leeds Philosophical Society
                                                                                   of

Sound and the Photophone," described to a large audience

the new invention, and also wrote on -it in Nature. He

immediately began experimenting with               and in a letterit,

of October that year, Graham Bell sent him numerous      I
                                                                                :
drawings and diagrams of improvements in his instrument.

In November, Thompson wrote to Miss Henderson

   " was very lucky yesterday in a little theoreticalII
investigation about the Photophone. Two little mathe:

matical calculations came out beautifully, and can now
tell Graham Bell, in the most positive way, how his instru
ment can be theoretically improved. Also a quite separate
little geometrical problem suddenly solved itself in my
mind last night not a very important problem, but a
pretty one."

In November, Graham Bell wrote                is :

" am much interested in what                              I
                                              stated in the Leeds

newspapers about your improved Phonograph.                   should

very much like to have any particulars concerning this
that are published or that you may care to make known
at the present time."

This friendly interchange of their researches went on

between Thompson and Graham Bell for some years. He

was also carrying on frequent correspondence with Professor

Barrett, to whom he wrote in February 1880         :

                                                        I
                                                               I
" am very much pleased to hear that the suggestion
aI
made as to the possibility of using the Motograph Telephone
as transmitter turns out successfully after all.
                                                                                   never

dreamed, however, that there would be an E.M.F. of any
thing like volt. Did you observe whether this varied
wit"h  the rate of rotation to any extentI}
       was sorry, too, that did not succeed   ;    at  Birmingham.
I                                          I    ?
    I
ran Poynting closely, being second but was not sur

prised when found the very high opinion the Trustees had
formed of him. He was second wrangler and Smith's prize

ma"n,Haanvde  his collegiate                experience nearly doubled mine. . . .
               you, seen                   de Fonvielle's shallow and blatant
attack in L' Electriciti upon Crookes' Radiant Matter in
              TELEPHONE RESEARCH                            111

particular, and the Kinetic Theory of Gases in general ?
IIt
"isPvraeyry  stupid.  this  brief  note.  am working at high
             excuse

pressure. This is our heavy term, and we have in addition
science lectures in partibus."

  In January of      1881 Thompson read before the Physical
Society " Notes     on the Construction of the Photophone,"

in which he stated that in certain experimental observations

he had been led to query whether Professor Graham Bell's

arrangement was the best possible one. He therefore

brought forward three theorems of construction which,

being carried out, caused considerable improvement.

An article on this new form of the Photophone, with

diagrams, appeared in Engineering on February 4th, 1881.

The Monograph of all the researches on Binaural Audition

appeared in   th"e   Philosophical Magazine for June 1882,  and
was entitled        On the Function of the Two Ears in      the

Perception of Space." In it Thompson reviewed all that

had been done on the subject by Professor Mach of Prague,

with whom he had been in correspondence, by Lord Rayleigh,

who had also consented that what he had done should be

quoted, by Graham Bell, and by himself, and ended by pro

posing the theory which he believed to cover all the facts

observed, up to that time.

While making all these small researches, Thompson had

also been engaged in numerous experiments with telephones

themselves. His Problem Books, in which he kept a list of

ideas to be worked out, are full of suggestions of new forms.

In this country the only well-known forms of the telephone

were those invented in America by Dr. Graham Bell and

Mr. T. A. Edison, but during one of his visits to Germany,

Thompson had come across an earlier form of telephone,

which was regarded there as the original and first telephone

invented. He was much interested in it, and set about

tracing the history and construction of this instrument.

  In January 1882 he was giving some lectures in Lan

cashire and Cheshire, and wrote to his wife :

  I" had an hour in Manchester with Mr. Horkheimer, a
former pupil of Reis, who told me lots of things about the
112 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

telephone, and is going to give me two which he himself
had set up in his house in 1875."

A few months later he published the results of his investiga

t"ioTnhseinFiarsltecTtuerleepthoonthee."BriTsthoisl  Naturalists' Society entitled
                                                     invention, made by an ob

scure German schoolmaster named Philipp Reis, had been

first exhibited at  wa hemneetthinegauotfhotrhesenPthyinsicaaml eSmoociirety"   of
Frankfort in 1861,                                                             On

Telephony by the Galvanic Current." Next year it had

been shown by Philipp Reis himself to a crowded audience

in a large hall in Frankfort. Thompson had procured some

of the apparatus made by this man, and the reprint of his

lecture was illustrated by drawings of it made by himself.

The most interesting form was a receiver of wood made in

the form of a human ear, with a metal tympanum against

which rested a curved lever of platinum wire. Graham

Bell had known of this invention, and both he and Edison

hadThreefelercretudretoonthe"  prior   work           of Reis.  "  brought  many
                               The    First          Telephone

inquiries, and his interest in the personality of the inventor

was so great that Thompson decided to write a biography

of him. The short accounts of Reis existing in Germany

were too sketchy to satisfy him, so early in 1883 he began

his second book. Much of it had already gone to press

when during the long vacation he went to Germany, accom

panied by his wife, and spent several weeks in prosecuting

inquiries amongst the surviving contemporaries of Philipp

Reis. The son of the inventor, Carl Reis, at that time lived

in Frankfort, so the first part of the time was spent in that

city. From there he went on to the Taunus district,

staying at Homburg and visiting Soden, where dwelt one

of the contemporaries of Reis, who was able to give much

useful information about his work and his experiments.

Reis was one of those men of inventive genius who were

little appreciated during life ; he died at the age of forty,

so did not see the fruition and recognition of his work.
   His widow and daughter lived in the little village of

Friedriohsdorf, some miles drive through the forest from
            TELEPHONE RESEARCH                        113

Homburg. They were quite poor, but of a refined and
well-educated type, and received most warmly this English

professor who was such an enthusiastic admirer of the

humble schoolmaster. The Gamier Institute where he

had taught for several years, and the schoolroom where he
had put up one of his first telephones, connecting it to the
physical cabinet of the Institute, were visited. Various

small inventions made by him were shown, including a very
primitive bicycle. Then Frau Reis led the way to the
cemetery, where stands the monument to Philipp Reis erected
in 1878 by the members of the Frankfort Physical Society.
An engraving of this appears in Thompson's biography of

him.

The holiday was not entirely devoted to this literary

work ; time was found to hear many of Wagner's operas in

the fine Opera House at Frankfort, and a pilgrimage was

made to Bayreuth to hear Parsifal, given as Wagner himself

had arranged and directed before his death in the previous

year. Thompson was an ardent admirer of his music,

which he had first heard in the Albert Hall in 1876.

The book was published by Messrs. Spon early in the

autumn of 1883, but it never had a very large sale ; many

thought that Thompson had estimated too highly the work

of Reis as a pioneer of Telephony. It was , however, received

with much appreciation in Germany, as doing honour to a

native of   that country.    thsBoeomhtehistsoicnriyenEotnfifigtcelalenmpdheonnayan.sd"aAm"Inemrtoihcseat
             recognised by
too it was  contribution to

important

latter country a very appreciative review of it appeared in

the Popular Science Monthly.

  In 1892 Professor Leopold Petsik of the Staatsgymnasium,

Trieste, wrote to the author that he was about to publish a
paper on the History of Telephony, and that he had " found

very much information in your excellent book on Philipp

Reis." Thompson never abandoned his belief that Reis

was the first inventor of this useful instrument. His

former master and friend, Professor Quincke of Heidelberg,
had written to him, recounting how he had been present at

the meeting of the German Naturalists' Association held at

8
114 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Giessen in 1864, when Philipp Reis showed and explained

the telephone he had invented :

I" listened at the receiver part of the apparatus and
Iheard distinctly both singing and talking.                distinctly

remember having heard the words of the German poem

' Ach.du lieber Augustin, Alles 1st bin.' The members of
the Association were astonished and delighted."

of Inthe191T4eleapnhaornteicle"  appeared in The Times on  " The Story
                                 which roused Thompson     to send the

following letter to the Editor :

  " Your contributor who writes on p. 6 the article entitled

' The Story of the Telephone ' makes an extraordinary
blunder. He says: 'On March 10th, 1876, he [Bell] suc
ceeded in sending spoken words along an electrified wire.
No one had ever done this before. Edison had not. Reis
had not. Bell invented the telephone first and alone.'
Either your contributor does not know the facts, or else he

deliberately       misstates them.         Philipp Reis   invented   his
' Telephon '                              that name in              was
                   and called it by                      1860. It
invented for the express purpose of transmitting speech by
electricity. He exhibited it to scientific societies repeatedly
in the years from 1862 to 1864. Eminent scientific men

are still living, some of them pupils of Reis, who heard
spoken words through it at the time. Their testimony has
been collected in my work Philipp Reis : Inventor of the
Tel"epShuorneely,  published thirty years ago.
                   the work accomplished by Dr.       Alexander  Graham

Bell is sufficiently well recognised that there is no excuse for
his admirers to advance, on his behalf, an untenable claim."

Although of a gentle and pacific nature in his personal

relationships with individuals, Thompson was a trenchant

controversialist, most anxious that credit should be given

to the earliest pioneers of science, and most ardent in the

defence of truth. During his lifetime he had many con

troversies on scientific and educational subjects, both in the

pages of the Scientific Journals and in the columns of The

Times or Saturday Review.                             " Improvements in
                                                      He had also lectured
TelTehpohmonpesoInnstrtuomokentosut"  a   patent for
                                      in  May 1 882.

on Telephony in various parts of the country, so was re
              TELEPHONE RESEARCH                               115

garded as an expert on the question. During the long

vacation of that year he was obliged to spend some week*

in London as adviser to a telephone company which had

been started as a rival to the United Telephone Company,

which was endeavouring to create a monopoly in this

country with the patents of Bell and Edison. As that

company refused to sell their instruments, and charged a

very high rent for them, the idea of obtaining a cheaper

form of telephone was very much in the minds of business

people, who were anxious to obtain telephones which they

could use between their private houses or offices and their

factories.

Electrical engineers were constantly at work experi

menting to devise some form of telephone which would not

infringe the patents of Bell and Edison. Among them was

Thompson with his keen inventive brain, which suggested

and rejected many a new form, as his problem books of that

period show.

This was the first time he had been called as an expert

witness in a patent case, and he found it weary work, while

he was longing to be off sketching in the Highlands of

IScotland, where his  w"ifHe oawnd   baby             daughter were staying.
                                    is my              pretty wee rosebud ?
To her he wrote :
don't forget my daughter in thinking of my ducats." In

afoftuenr-dyetahres,rewsuhletinngpat"endtucacatsses"  took up  much of his time, he
                                                      came in  very usefully for the

education of the daughters.

   After the publication of his Isife of Philipp Reis he con
tinued his experiments in telephone improvements, taking

out several patents which excited interest among those

who at that time were anxious to break down the mono

poly of the United Telephone Company, both in this country

and in America. At last he produced a new telephone

with a valve transmitter and Reis receiver, which were

both of his design, and a syndicate was formed to buy them

from him. The Attorney-General of the day gave his

opinion that the telephones invented by Professor Silvanus

Thompson did not infringe any of the patent rights held by

the United Telephone Company.
116 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

The following letter, written from London in July 1884

to his  "wTifhee,  gives   an account of the  s"tarting  of  what  was
called             New    Telephone Company         :

   " The negotiations which Mr. W. has been quietly carrying

Ion for me to try and effect a sale of my telephone patent

rights are coming to a head, and found at Paddington a
message from him. He has had part of the instruments
for some time. The proposal is to form at present a syndi
cate, to take the thing up in a preparatory way ; which will
put a little capital into the affair --enough to provide means
for manufacturing a lot of instruments, and paying some
of the expenses incurred in patenting. Then after a few

months, when the thing is developed, they will take over

I Ithe patents, and begin to pay royalties. Meantime,

though get nothing more than expenses, probably, shall
incur no risks."

   That year the British Association was being held for the
first time out of Great Britain at Montreal, Canada ; Professor

Thompson had intended to sail with the party of scientists

who were going there in the Circassian. He was, however,

detained in London by details connected with the Telephone

Company, and had to postpone his departure until the

eleventh hour. He wrote to his wife :

I" This telephone negotiation drags most wearily ; shall
not remain here                         to-morrow,   whether things are
concluded or not.         bIetyoisndin  good hands,  but there is a great

deal to do. Each man who thinks of taking part in the

concern has his own ideas how the thing should be managed,
and it is very tedious talking the people round point by

point."

The New Telephone Company got its prospectus out in

November 1884, and began to advertise its instruments,
which it sold outright to its customers under licence from

the Postmaster-General.

  In   t"heNIenwvePnatitoennst  Exhibition of 1885 the Company showed
                                Valve Telephone invented by Professor
their

Silvanus Thompson." The inventor was paid for his

instruments by shares in the company, and he was made a

director.
              TELEPHONE RESEARCH                                       117

The Company was immediately inundated by inquiries

from all parts of the country, but as soon as some of the

instruments had been installed, and a commercial success

was in view, the United Telephone Company brought an

injunction against them for infringement of patents. Then

followed a lawsuit in Chancery in which the New Telephone

Company was defeated. It was taken to the Appeal Court,

where Lord Justice North again gave the decision against

them.

  In the transmitter of Silvanus Thompson, the valve was

used instead  of a diaphragm  fjourdgthmeetnrat ntshmatiss"ioenveroyf  speech.
              North gave his                                           surface
Lord Justice

which can vibrate is a diaphragm." This decision, of course,

completely ruined the New Telephone Company's prospects,

and the directors were obliged very soon to wind up its

affairs and go into bankruptcy. This was finally settled

up in 1889.

Professor Thompson received much sympathy from some

of his friends, to whom the decision was a complete surprise.

Mr. Walter Palmer wrote :

I" do not understand Justice North's definition ' every
surface that can vibrate is a diaphragm.' This seems to me
I Imost monstrously unfair.
                              conclude, however, that for
Ione as a shareholder must acquiesce in what the board have
decided and arranged, although        am extremely sorry,

firstly because your company has come to grief, and secondly
because the same fate doubtless awaits several other
Icompanies, and it will lead to the monopoly of the United
Company being much increased.   hope we may have the

opportunity of meeting before long."

   A few months later Thompson wrote to another of his

friends who had been a loser :

  I" Although cannot for a moment admit that you have
Iany legal claim against the directors personally, yet it

is clear that yours is a hard case, and shall be glad if you

I-will, as a friend, allow me to give you my personal assurance

that will see, so soon as things are settled with the liquida
tors, that you are not a loser by these instruments."
118 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

He received the following reply :

I" No, I'm blest if you shall !        appreciate your great
kindness, but you have been treated badly enough already.

I shall not forget your kindness ; but do get it out of your
I Ihead that care a button for the £. s. d. ! value your friend
I Iship even more than did, and feel more sorry for your losa
than for mine in this little affair."

After the collapse of the New Telephone Company, the

problems of telephony still continued to interest Thompson,

and in 1893 he took out a new patent for Ocean Telephony.

That year he was one of the British delegates to the Electrical

Congress  at   Chicago, and  ofals"o  InhsetlrdumtehentsapopfoiPnrtemceisniot n o"f
judge in  the   department

at the Great Exhibition. At this Congress he communi

cated to one of its sittings his new discovery, in the form

of a paper which attracted world-wide attention as the

earliest pioneer work in Ocean Telephony. His discovery

as described by Dr. Alexander Russell ' was a method for

diminishing the distortion of the electromagnetic waves in

submarine cables used for telephony. The method was

to insert inductive shunt circuits or leaks across the two

lines of the cable, or between the line and the earth. Dr.

Russell wrote :

  " It undoubtedly equalises the ' attenuation ' at different

frequencies, and so improves the clearness of the articulation.
Unfortunately, however, it greatly diminishes the loudnesa
of the sound. The method is a perfectly valid one, and
useful in certain cases."

   The invention was never adopted by any of the cable

companies, and was later superseded by Pupin's invention.

At the time, however, it was hailed in America as a remark

able contribution to telephony.

  Some years later Dr. J. A. Fleming, Professor of Engineer

ing at University College, wrote as follows :

I" DEA" RInTHmOyMPSbOoNo,k Propagation of Electric Currents in
Telephone and Telegraph Conductors,    have mentioned

               1 In the Journal ofIntt.E.E., July 1917.
               TELEPHONE RESEARCH                                             119

your 1893 Patent (see p. 106), but had not space to discuss
Ithe"claims.
         have  always  regarded                    Pupin's  contribution  to  the

subject to be his experimental and mathematical proof of
the right distance for spacing coils, and not in any sense
    a first  suggestion for ' loading              ' generally        my book,
as                                                 credit for   (see  modes of
p.  109).    You certainly deserve                              the

constructing highly inductive circuits to be used as shunts,
and if you had received more encouragement from the
practical monopolists, G.P.O. and Telephone Camps would
no doubt have been able to anticipate Pupin. . . . The

Imathematics is, however, very complicated, and should
be sorry to dogmatise. Owing to expensive nature of the
work, experiments are difficult."

    Thompson had paid his first visit to America in 1884,

when he attended the British Association Meeting at Mont

real. His fame as the author of Dynamo-Electric Machinery

had spread widely both in Canada and the United States,

and the      aspcipeenatirfaicncejo, ur"nsatlisll  commented frequently   on his
youthful                                            on the sunny side of
                                                                          forty,"

as one of them expressed it.

    The Meeting of the Association was a brilliant one, from

the presence of a large number of scientific stars of the
first magnitude. Lord and Lady Rayleigh, Sir William and
Lady Thomson, Oliver Lodge, William Ramsay, and many

others.
   Thompson wrote to his wife :

    " This morning before breakfast a party of us, including
the Ramsays, Sollas, and others, went to Lachine to shoot
               in the steamer -- it is very fine.

               are most hospitable here, Graham
Ithe"
    rapids                                                      Bell and      are
    People
great friends ! The debates in Section A are exciting. Sir
Frederick Bramwell made a splendid Lion King at the Red
Lion dinner. His jokes from the chair were superb. Sir
William Thomson was described as being neither the head
nor the tail of the ' Ass,' and therefore ' no end of an ass.'
We had a splendid mock speech in French by the Hon. Mr.
Freemantle, duly translated by Jackal Roberts. There
Iwere also speeches of very witty kinds from Preece and

Henry Wood. gave my lecture on the ' Electricity of the
120 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Cat ' (illustrated by cartoons) , amid roars and howls of
applause."

   Silvanus Thompson, his cousin Isaac C. Thompson the
zoologist, and Oliver Lodge, made up a little party and went
a tour in Canada on their way to Niagara. They visited
some of the Thompson cousins living in Toronto, and then
had a quiet time inspecting the Falls at their leisure. After

wards Thompson and Lodge went on to Philadelphia,
whence he wrote to his wife a week later :

" This has been a hot-- nay a scorching --week, with

much to do, and little possibility of rest. Between the
meetings of the American Association, the meetings of the
International Electrical Conference, and the visits to the

I IElectrical Exhibition, am feeling considerably jaded, and
hail with pleasure the chance of running off to Boston, where

the"rePhairlaedceolpohl isaeaanbdreetzhees. Philadelphians are simply charm
ing : but the American Association is disappointing hi
Imany ways. The quality of the papers read is decidedly

inferior. have come across some most delightful Friends
here : an old bachelor Dr. Levick : also President Chase,
LL.D., of Haverford College, and his brother, Professor
Pliny Earle Chase, of the
                           same  College,   who is a great mathe
matical genius. It has     been  intensely    interesting meeting

all the American electricians and scientific men here.
IGraham Bell and Elisha Gray were both here.
                                              have
Inot seen Edison yet, but shall meet him in New York.
made a long speech yesterday at the Electrical Conference

Ion the subject of Dynamos, and found that what had
Ito say was very well received. Most people whom have
Imet have been frank enough to express surprise that had
not a long grey beard and a bald head. The Electrical
Exhibition is a very interesting show, but there are very few
novelties."

   During this visit Thompson formed several Lifelong
friendships with men whom he admired and liked, and
which were renewed on his subsequent visits, or when his
friends came to Europe.

   On the occasion of the great Chicago Exhibition of 1893,
many Congresses were held, and during the time, when
                         TELEPHONE RESEARCH                                    121

he was serving on the Jury there, he again attended the

International Electrical Congress.
   To his wife :

" An Electrical Congress is always a busy time ; but
in this city of magnificent distances and with all the local
                         of the occasion, it
circ"uYmessttaenrcdeasy  morning was Jury     is doubly a cause of toil.
                                              work as usual ; but in the

Iaft"ernoloenft    the   Congress met.        noon,  and travelled         down
                   the
                         Exhibition about
by the Illinois Central Railroad to the ' down-town ' station
at Van Buren Street in the heart of the city, close to the

Institute where the Congress was to meet. Helmholtz
Ihad already arrived in
                                the morning, and         there were        many
others to greet whom                 had not seen                          Elihu
                                                         for years --
Thomson, Professor Eddy, and a score more. The opening
                                         over to                            formal
meeting,   which was            given  o'clock.   Igtreweatsingasgreaantd  success,
business,  was held at          three

and everything went without a hitch. Elisha Gray pre
sided, and did his part very well. Helmholtz l was received
with immense enthusiasm, and Ferraris 8 and Mascart '

came in for warm welcomes. Preece 4 was well received
and made a very short speech. Ayrton ' made a very
wit"tyThaeddlraessts
                         which  delighted them all. . . .     on           ' Ocean
                         paper  in the morning was mine
ITelephony.' It was extremely well received ; and at the
end"      received       an ovation.    this  will       the  event        of
      Some of the        Americans say               be                        the

ICongress. The discussion on it was adjourned. Meantime

  a"mInprthepearaifntgernwooenapothnesrefowr erreeplnyo. section meetings : but
we held a sitting of the ' Chamber of Delegates ' from the
Ivarious Governments. Besides this work of attending

Congress and Chamber of Delegates, have been on two
                   : so that my hands have        been full.
com" mOinteteeosf  the most curious features      of the Congress          is  the

absence of certain persons. Edison is known to be in
town ; but has not once turned up. He has not even been

      President of the Beichs Anstalt, Berlin.                College, South

      Galileo Ferraris of Milan.
      Professor Mascart of the Sorbonne, Paris.
      Sir William Preece of the London Post Office.

      Professor W. E. Ayrton, of the City Guilds Central
Kensington.
122 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

suggested for any post as Vice-president or other prominent
part : but the catch-penny Press has been full of his portraits
and biographies, referring to him as the brightest star of the
Congress ; and talking of Von Helmholtz as the ' Edison of
Germany.' Another absent person is Graham Bell. He
was named by Government as the temporary President of
Section C. But he never turned up, and, curiously enough,
nobody seemed to expect him to do so. Gray is universally
esteemed and loved : and he is chairman of the Congress."

To the same on August 26th :

I IIt"Atlast
     been    the Congress is      over, and    can breathe again.
has          a very closely       packed time  ; and have not

Ibeen the least busy of the six-and-twenty delegates of the
Official Chamber.       had just time on Wednesday to write
you that my paper on ' Ocean Telephony ' had been well

Ireceived, and that had won over into belief in my plans
Iseveral of the men of whom had the most fear -- namely,
the cable engineers. As it turns out, my paper and the
Idiscussion on it have been one of the features of the

Congress ; and have received congratulations right and

left". The Sections met only in the mornings. One could not
attend more than one of them each day ; and it was, in the
absence of proper preliminary arrangements, very difficult

Ito
"leOarnn      what was  going to  come off.   make  my  reply  to  the
             Wednesday   morning      had to
Idiscussion ; and afterwards took part in the debate on
ILong-distance Transmission of Power. Another day took
part in      the discussion   on Ayrton's paper -- which is a most
                             Phenomena of the Voltaic Arc.
val"uaObnle   one--on the     official Chamber of Delegates met in

             most days the
the afternoons in a room in the Union Pacific Hotel. We
Ihad some very warm discussions ; and much of the work
had to be done by sub-committees.              was put on that
upon the consideration of the Unit or Standard of Light :
and of that sub-committee they madeM. Violle.of Paris, the
chairman and myself secretary. As the committee con
sisted of two Germans, one Swiss, one American, and the

chairman and secretary, the proceedings were in several
languages, mostly French and German. The secretary
therefore had a lively time of it ; and his rough notes were
highly polyglot in form. The two Germans worked very
. TELEPHONE RESEARCH                                                                                          123.

hard to put upon us as a standard lamp one that has been
rejected in England ; but we defeated the proposition, and
olefffi"tciTathhl eudresqldeuageyastteioesnv. enuIinntgdwetewenirttmneoinsfefsdee.dxtrtehmeelbyanwqeulel t ;
                                                                                                              given to the
                                                                                                              the speeches
being witty from first to last. Professor Gray, who presided,
led off in a most charming way. Mascart was very amusing
Iand so was Preece. This was the only affair at which Mr.

Edison put in an appearance ; was quite shocked to see how
old he had grown. He refused to make any speech, though
called upon. The closing meeting of the Congress next day
somewhat resembled those at the end of a British Associa

Itio"n
 meeting.       returned to the Exhibition, first to

In the evening
meet two of my former students, and secondly to hear Tesla
lecture. The latter affair was not brilliant ; but it was of

gre"atThsicsieanfttifeircnoionnterePsret.ece and the British delegates held a
reception at the house of the British Commission. We
had a large number of the electrical folk -- the Congress at

Ilarge -- in attendance, and altogether it was a pleasant time.

Now am going out again to see some experiments of Elihu
Thomson's. He makes real lightning 6 feet long ; and

shows some extraordinary effects."

   During his stay in the States, Thompson was the guest
both of Professor Elisha Gray and Mr. Elihu Thomson in
their homes, and he often talked of the delightful hospitality
which he had received from them. While at Lynn he
spent a whole day in the electric works of the latter.

   To his wife from Boston :

  I" To-day have called on one or two folk ; have visited

the Art Museum, have inspected an electric lamp factory

and hunted over a famous old book store."

  In New York he visited Edison and saw his laboratories,

in which one of his own old students was assistant.
                        CHAPTER VII

    REMOVAL TO LONDON ; WORK AT FINSBURY COLLEGE

 THE position of Bristol University College as compared
 with other newer University Colleges, and their provision
for meeting the increasing demands of the time for scientific
training, was very far from being ideal during the years
 1883-4. The great obstacle to progress in every direction
was the lack of proper endowment and financial support.

    During a visit paid at Easter 1883 to Liverpool, and to
the laboratories of his old friend Mr. Oliver Lodge, then
recently appointed Professor of Physics at the University
College, Thompson was filled with admiration and envy
at seeing the liberal provision of space and equipment
provided for the scientific Professors by the generous gifts of
the wealthy merchants of the town.

    Notwithstanding the renown of some of the staff and the
attainments of the Principal of the Bristol College, Dr.
William Ramsay, little progress had been made since the
opening of the first wing of the new building in 1882.

    The Electrical department had attracted clever students
from different parts of the country, but the wretched equip
ment discouraged research, and prevented the entrance
of others.

   Great dissatisfaction was felt by all the Staff of the
College, and it culminated when a proposal of the Council
to cut down all the salaries was seriously suggested. Princi
pal Ramsay had been trying for some time to obtain that
Government support which was so tardily granted in the
end. The following letter from Thompson, written in June
1884 to the Principal of the Newcastle College, shows the
state of affairs at that time :

                                                                     124
             REMOVAL TO LONDON                                                  125

  "I" DEAR PROFESSOR GARNETT,
                have been asked by the Principal of our College,
Dr. Ramsay, to communicate with you upon a question that

Iis a little agitating us just now. You are aware, suppose,
that our College is (and always has been) on a very precarious
financial footing, and that our expenditure exceeds our

inc"omTheis,byobsveiovuersalyl ,  hundred pounds   every year.             and  the
                                  must come to an  end sometime,

matter is so far critical that there is a serious proposal on
the tapis for reducing our not-too-large salaries all round.
We have no endowment of any kind. The Oxford grant
is reduced to £200 a year, contributed from private sources

with no promise of perpetuity, and the Clothworkers' grant
of £300 a year is not too certain to continue. Under these

circumstances the question of applying to Government, as
the Welsh Colleges have done, for Imperial assistance has

cro"ppTehde  up.      of          our Council is,  however,          that  Bristol
             opinion

asking alone would have no chance of success in Parliament :
but that, if such a demand came at once from all the English
colleges of kindred type, or at any rate from those of them
that are not substantially endowed, such a united demand

cou"ldOunroCt obuencnileghleacstetdh.erefore determined to feel its way by
taking the preliminary step of communicating in an unofficial

Iway with the authorities of the kindred colleges. This

is how come to address you in the present instance. Do
you think that the Newcastle College would join with us in
an appeal to Government for a Royal Commission to
inquire into the facilities       foErnghliigshherciteiedsuc\at"ion
the University Colleges of                                           afforded   by

   Dr. Garnett replied at once that he would not only bring
the subject before the next meeting of the Council of his
College, but also before the Nottingham Committee.

   Meantime another proposal before the Bristol Council,
to drop the Arts side of the University College, also excited
great wrath among the staff, and led to the following letter
from Thompson, written in June to a member of the Council :

   " DEA" RThCeANPOriNncPipEaRlCIVhaAsL, shown me the outlines of a

Ischeme for recasting the financial arrangements of Univer

sity College.. As have given myself time to consider the
126 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

I Iquestion, think cannot too early take the opportunity
"saIyfincgarrtiheadt  it does not commend      itself to my judgment.
                      out it will effectually  cripple the literary side
Iof
of the College, and for that reason, if for no other, should
Iregard it as disastrous to the prospects of the College.

We owe it to the influence of Oxford, and believe very
largely to yourself and the Master of Balliol, that our
College has not been confined in its aims to being merely a
Science College. To draw back now would be little less than
fatal. Further than this, the scheme runs counter to the

entire policy pursued by the College of late years towards
members of our staff, to whom it has been our policy to give

as good a guarantee as possible, leaving the fluctuating
                                 minor item.
                                 in my own
Icha"nWceesreofthseharcehsanogfe
                      fees as a                case,  think it
                       adopted
Iwould probably not make a difference of £50 per annum

either way. But am quite certain that it could not have
the effect of inducing me to throw myself any more heartily
into the College work. Some of my colleagues it would
effectually drive away to seek their bread elsewhere, and
Isome whom should be most unwilling, for the sake of the
I ICollege, to lose.
                      do not think, though am speaking
Ionly from my own opinion, that the scheme would be

acceptable to any one of my colleagues, and sincerely hope
Iit will not be pressed either now or at any future time.

  do not say that the scheme might not work, had it been
Ipropounded at the beginning of the work of the College.

But it will not, am sure, bring anything but disaster to
adopt such a course at this stage."

   Although Thompson received little encouragement in his

efforts to awaken public opinion to the needs of the College,
a long letter from him to the Western Daily Press in October

1883 pointed out the necessity of Government assistance

ItdmroeeenlEncaenn.?gdl",isaBhanundCtdoWhlleecargleweeassat.,sesdtuoIcltchdow,ana"sssiMwdeearnr.satigbMtrlleueandnt,diene"dtlelWarteohsisytthdnoaesonaetddfooafcrgoSaErcirnnoesgtsltplaiosnthnhde,

idea of endowing English Colleges, and so will the Treasury
be, you may be sure."

   The staff of the College held a united meeting of protest,
but the obnoxious scheme for readjustment of salaries was
                          REMOVAL TO LONDON                                127

persisted in. The following letter to his mother, written

by Thompson at the end of the Session of 1884, shows his

feeling on the matter :

I" The time seems drawing very near when work will be
over and my American trip begin.                  have to go to Liver
pool next week to preside at a meeting of the National
Association of Science and Art Teachers on Saturday after
Inoon and evening. But shall not have a spare hour, other
I Iwise would try to sleep one night at Settle.
                                                                shall,
Ihowever, come for a peep before go to Canada ; probably
ab"ouTt hJeulyba1b2ieths  or 18th.
                           are well  and  lively.  The Conference

(annual) of Head Mistresses          is going on  this week in  Clifton.
Janie's old schoolmistress,          Miss Jones    of Notting   Hill, is

staying with us. We were at the Conversazione at the

ICli"ftoCnolleHgieghafSfacihrosolarleastdrnifitginhtg. from bad to worse.  fear

the Council are simply letting the whole thing slide ; for
they are doing absolutely nothing to put the College on a
better financial basis. Money is being given to other
colleges all round ; we cannot get any. No legacies and no
endowments have yet been given us since we began. The
Professors held a meeting this week to protest against the
inaction of the Council. Whether this will produce any
                          be seen. This kind of
good result  remains to                            thing        going
on is very   unpleasant.   It makes one all the    more         sorry

that none of the London posts have fallen to my lot."

   The London posts referred to in this letter were appoint

ments under the City Guilds Institute in connexion with

the founding of their two Technical Colleges in London.
Thompson had applied for the post of Directing Secretary,
and later for that of Professor of Physics at the Central

Institution.

   The Technical College, Finsbury, the first to be started by
the City Guilds Institute, began with evening classes in 1 879.
The day training classes for engineers and chemists began
in 1883, when the present building was opened. Its founda

tion stone had been laid by the late Duke of Albany in 1881.
The three chairs of Physics, Mechanical Engineering and
Chemistry were held respectively by Professor W. E.
Ayrton.Professor John Perry, and Professor H, E. Armstrong,
128 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Mr. Philip Magnus     (afterwards Sir Philip) being the
Directing Secretary.

Thompson's name was well known to many members of

the City Guilds Institute, and so was his work on Technical

Education ; he had been asked to draw up, for the use of

the Committee, a scheme for a Central Technical College,

which was practically embodied in the final scheme adopted

by them for their new Central Technical College, which

was opened by Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, in 1884.

The following communication was therefore sent to him

in January 1885 by Mr. Magnus as soon as Professor Ayrton

of the Finsbury College was elected to the chair of Physics

at the Central :

   " The Members of Sub-committee C are about to con
sider the recommendation to the Executive Committee of
the names of two or more gentlemen as candidates for the
post of Principal of the Finsbury Technical College. The
Principal will be expected to take the general management
and superintendence of the College, and to act as Professor
of one of the Science Departments. He will be required to
give his whole time to the work. The Committee are
prepared, under certain circumstances, to offer a salary

of as much as £800 a year."

   Professor Thompson did not hesitate long in deciding to
send in an application for the new post. Among those who
gave him testimonials were Canon Percival, then President
of Trinity College, Oxford, Dr. B. Jowett of Balliol, Pro
fessor Alfred Marshall, Professor of Political Economy at
Cambridge, Mr. Albert Fry, the Chairman of University
College, Bristol, and his kind friend Dr. John Hall Glad
stone, F.B.S. Canon Percival wrote to him personally :

  I" Though shall be very sorry to see the Bristol College
Ilose your services, should feel it my duty to give you a

very hearty support in any way which you might suggest
as likely to be most effective, should you stand for this."

   In his testimonial he wrote :

  I" Mr. Thompson is so well known that suppose he can

hardly need my testimony, but having had constant oppor
REMOVAL TO LONDON                                    129

Itunities of observing his career ever since he became Pro

fessor at Bristol, can only say of my own experience that
he is not only a remarkably brilliant lecturer, and a writer
of excellent textbooks, but that he has given much study
and attention to the best methods of Technical Education,

Iboth at home and abroad, and has written some of the most

interesting things that have ever seen on this subject.
Mr. Thompson is, moreover, a man of great energy and
activity, and would be ambitious of making any institu
tion under his direction thoroughly efficient in all its
departments."

   From Jowett he received the following :
   " You are welcome to refer to me in your candidature

Ifor the Finsbury College. If it were not likely to be so great

a loss to us at Clifton, should heartily wish success, either
to you or Professor Ram"saYyo.urs sincerely, B. JOWETT."

   The post was applied for by seventeen candidates, many
of whom were known to Thompson, among them Dr.
William Ramsay and Professor Barrett of Dublin. The
latter, when he heard that Thompson was a candidate, very

generously wrote to withdraw in his favour, and used all his

influence on his behalf.
    To him Thompson wrote on February 17th :

" Your most generous action in withdrawing your candi
Idature in my favour will, believe, practically make my
Ielection secure.  will let you know how things stand
Iafter Friday next ; but meantime know not how to
"It Ithank you in words.
          is entirely untrue that have been canvassing in the

City ; and it is a great shamo of X to be circulating the
reckless and untrue statements that have been so freely set
going of late in this matter. This instance is only one of a
large number that have come to my knowledge. It is a
great pity. With the most grateful feelings. . . ."

                                                                                                                                         v

   The list was shortened down to six candidates, and when
the election took place, Thompson had a large majority,
nineteen out of twenty-six voting in his favour.

          9
130 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

He received many letters of congratulation. Sir

Frederick Abel, with whom he had been associated in the

judgment of the Safety Lamps, one of the Committee, wrote :
"I congratulate you sincerely upon your success, which
Iwas gratifying to me personally.     hope and believe that

the appointment is one in every way congenial to you."

Dr. Gladstone wrote :

I" am very glad indeed to hear that you have been
Ielected. The right man in the right place.  have no

doubt there is good work before you in London, and that
you will do it with all your heart."

     Silvanus Thompson was in his thirty-fourth year when
 he became Principal of the Technical College, Finsbury, and
 this was the scene of his labours for over thirty-one years ,

 as he still held the appointment at the end of his life.
     The college building is situated in Leonard Street, a

 dismal back street off the City Road and behind Finsbury
 Square, from whence it derived its name. The neighbour
 hood is dull and depressing, but it has its advantages in
 being very central for trams and railways from the outlying
 suburbs of London. The college was a dingy-looking stone
 building in harmony with its surroundings, and during

 Thompson's time there, was considerably enlarged by the
 addition of a huge wing for the engineering department.

    As Professor H. E. Armstrong also left Finsbury at the
same time as Professor Ayrton, in order to take up the chair

of Chemistry at the.Central Institution, Thompson had the
pleasure after Easter of welcoming as his colleague his old
friend Raphael Meldola, who had already attained to fame
as the discoverer of the beautiful aniline dyes known as
Meldola greens. With him he always had the most

harmonious relationship, and their friendship, founded on
many common interests, lasted to the end. His other
colleague, John Perry, F.R.S., the Professor of Mechanical

Engineering, had held his post in the early days of the
foundation of the college, and had been intimately associ
ated with Professor Ayrton in the pioneer work of forming
an Electrical Engineering Laboratory. Electrical science
REMOVAL TO LONDON                        131

at that time had hardly yet been recognised as a branch of

engineering, and a few brilliant young men were anxious to
get it established on a thoroughly practical basis. Thompson,
by his Cantor Lectures and published works, had already
very largely contributed to the attainment of this aim.
With him Professor Perry co-operated most loyally, and the
relations between the two departments were all such as to

promote the welfare of the college. Two years after they

had begun to be colleagues, Professor Perry wrote to
Thompson in March 1887 :

  "Your letter of the llth inst. is another evidence --

if evidence were wanted --that in working for the good of

IFinsbury, the details of your method of working are as free
from meanness as the object itself is.   agree to your

proposal (as you see by my programme for next year)
after a large amount of mental debate."

    Thompson's appointment took place early in March,
and he removed to London that month in order to prepare
to take up his duties after the Easter vacation. He was
fortunate in being able to retain the services of his former
assistant, Mr. E. A. O'Keefe, who also left Bristol, and was

appointed assistant at Finsbury. Having acceded to the

request of the Council of the Bristol College, to continue
his work there until the end of the Summer Session,

Thompson had a very strenuous three months at the
beginning of his career in London.

    The work of Principal and Professor at Finsbury was

always strenuous, indeed too strenuous, because the college
had departments for day and evening students, and even
the Principal was expected to give one or two evening
lectures every week from October to May, with a very short
vacation at Christmas. During many sessions Thompson
was giving ten lectures per week during the winter months.

For the day students, who numbered over two hundred,

there were courses in Physics, Electricity, Chemistry, and
Engineering. The object of the training as set forth in the
prospectus was the education of --

   I. Persons of either sex who wish to receive a scientific
132 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

and practical preparatory training for intermediate posts
(as, for instance, foremen or managers) in industrial works.

  II. Apprentices, journeymen, and foremen who are

engaged in the daytime, and who desire to receive supple
mentary instruction in the art and practice, and in the
theory and principles of science connected with the industry
in which they are engaged.

  III. Pupils from middle-class and other schools who are

preparing for the higher scientific and technical courses of
instruction to be pursued at the Central Institution.

   The college therefore fulfils the functions of a finishing
technical school for those entering industrial life at a com
paratively early age ; of a supplemental school for those
already engaged in factory and workshop ; and of a
preparatory school for the Central Institution.

    The department for the evening classes comprised each
of the subjects of the day classes adapted to the requirements
of the different types of student, with the addition of a large

Art Department, and various Building trade classes,

Cabinet-making and other Art industries.
    When Thompson came to Finsbury there were only two

 women day students taking the courses, Miss Hertha
 Marks (afterwards Mrs. W. E. Ayrton), a distinguished
 student in Physics, and one other, a chemical student.
 There were never any more women day students during his
 time, as the accommodation for them was so inadequate.
 Even the men students had no common-room or lunch

 room, and were obliged to go to restaurants during the
 lunch hour.

     Finsbury College was adapted most rigorously for work,
 and work only, and the numerous evening students of both
 sexes simply came for their classes, but had no corporate
 feeling or attraction to the place, such as was felt at the
 more popular Polytechnics which came into being in later
  years, and proved such a boon to those whose education was
  lacking in many respects.

     The students desiring to enter the day courses of Physios,
  Engineering or Chemistry had to pass an entrance examina
  tion in mathematics and English subjects, particular stress
TECHNICAL COLLEGE, PINSBUBY  133

  being laid on composition and precis writing. There was
  no limit of age above fourteen, but it was rare for anyone

  below sixteen to be able to pass the entrance examination,

  and as there were for many years more students applying
  than there was room for, it became in a way competitive,
  for those who did best were admitted by preference.

     Thus it happened that occasionally the students included

  a few who were older, who had previously gone through

  some engineering or workshop training. Thompson fre
  quently found ithat such students did extremely well.
  The college did not prepare its students for any outside
  degree or examination, but at the end of the courses of

  either Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, or

  Chemistry, certificates of proficiency were granted to those
 who had passed the final examinations up to a certain

 standard. Within a few years of the establishment of this

 system, those students who had gamed certificates were able
 to obtain good posts without serving any apprenticeship,

 paying any premium, or taking any University degree.
 Thompson's insistence that the training for the industries
 must be essentially practical became so well known that
 to have been under him at Finsbury was an asset to many
 of them.

    In October 1887, at a time when there was again great

public discussion on Technical Education, and at the end
of his first complete year's work, Thompson printed an

account of The Present Operations of the Finsbury Technical
College. After a historical summary of the starting of the
College, he gave a survey of the scope of the work which had
been and might be achieved in it. During 1886 the college
had been attended by 156 day students and 912 evening
students. But after a few years the numbers increased
considerably. With regard to the educational methods

pursued he wrote :

   " The education given in the college presents several

points in marked contrast to an ordinary college education.
The laboratory, the workshop, and the drawing office take
up the main portion of the student's time. For every hour
in which the student is being talked to in the lecture-room,
134 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

there are two hours in which he is instructing himself by

act"uaTlexwtboorko.ks are almost unknown ; the students acquire

their facts and draw their inferences not from books, nor

from the ipse dixit of the teacher, but from the things them
selves. The results of this scheme of instruction are

briefly this : that the students who have followed out their

course enter industrial life under much more favourable
conditions than otherwise they could have done. They
pick up in the shops in two or three years more than they
could have done in five or six years under the old apprentice

shi"p   system.  cases  they enter  at once as  improvers  ; their

       In many
college training stands them in better stead than an expen
sive premium, because it fits them to enter, not as premium
pupils, but rather as workmen, and they gain the con

fidence of older workmen as premium pupils very rarely
can do."

   The Evening Classes admitted many of the students at
half fees as apprentices ; some were not much over fourteen

years of ag,;, others considerably older. There were no
entrance examinations to restrict admission, and the

attainments of the students were very varied. The

subjects of Electricity and Magnetism and others connected
with Electrical Engineering, such as Dynamo Design,
Electric Bells, Electro-plating, when inaugurated by
Thompson, brought crowds of eager young men to the
college, and later on courses on Technical Optics attracted
men from great distances, some even from Nottingham
and Leicester who had to travel back by night in order to be
at their work next day, so keen were they to profit by his
remarkably lucid and clear explanations of complicated

optical phenomena.
   No actual trades were taught in the college, the nearest

approach to trade-teaching being the practical instruction
given in the Plumbing and Metal Plate classes. This
instruction, though more than mere handicraft, was regarded

as supplementary to apprenticeship, not as a substitute for

it. In these classes the aim was to give instruction in the

application of the principles that underlie the various
TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBURY                                       135

processes. In every case the classes were placed under

instructors who were conversant with trade usages and

terms, having themselves worked in that trade. This was

in Thompson's opinion    a"n TarabdsoelutCellaysseess.s"entiIanl  qualification
for the teachers of the                                           the Applied

Art Department he took a very great interest. There were

life classes both for painting and modelling, and some

distinguished men received their first instruction in the

Finsbury Evening Classes.

One subject which greatly attracted Thompson was the

electro-plating, which was taught for thirty-five years by

Mr. Rousseau, an extremely able instructor. The electro-

deposition of metals was thoroughly investigated by

Thompson ; he tried many experiments, and succeeded in

inventing a mode of electro-plating with cobalt which

produced a beautiful untarnishable silver-grey surface of

great use for decorative purposes. He sent a paper de

scribing this discovery to the Royal Society in 1 887, which
was communicated by Dr. G. Carey Foster, F.R.S., and

also took out a patent for the process.

  In his home at Hampstead he had for more than twenty

years an overmantel executed in brass and plated with

cobalt which never tarnished, and was often greatly admired.

He also had a portrait model made of William Gilbert,

author of De Magnete ; this too was executed at the college

and plated by the cobalt process. At one time the Metal-

work classes attracted two gold medallists from South

Kensington to attend at Finsbury for the purpose of studying
that art. Some of the early work of Mr. Gilbert Bayes, R.A.,

was executed in this department, while he was still a student

in his teens, and before he had begun his career at the

Royal Academy. Among these early works was a portrait

group of Thompson's four little daughters, to whose nursery

at Hampstead the young artist was a welcome visitor on

Saturday afternoons.

   After a visit paid to Italy in 1892, Thompson introduced
another artistic handicraft into the curriculum of the Art

Department, that of enamelling on metal as carried out in

Venice and other Italian towns. He was able to find juat
 136 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

 the right man as instructor, and under Mr. Alexander
 Fisher a most successful and enthusiastic class was carried
 on for several years. Some of the students -- as, for example,
 Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Dawson --achieved remarkable results
 and set up schools of metal-work themselves. Thompson,
 of course, tried his hand at the new form of Art, and suc
 ceeded in producing some little souvenirs of his own design.
 During that same Session 1892-3 he gave a Special Course
 of three lectures on the electrical principles underlying the
. process of Electro-deposition of metals.

    In spite of the many administrative duties which fell upon

 the Principal of a progressive and active Technical College,
 such as Finsbury became under Thompson, he was always
 at work devising better experimental means of bringing
 within the mental grasp of his students the very difficult
 problems presented by the study of Electrical Engineering.
 As an original investigator himself he stimulated his senior
 students to work out original problems and designs for
 themselves. As years went on there grew up round him

 in the college groups of young men who were eager to act as
 his assistants, and who many of them passed on to take
 prominent positions themselves. To mention a few associ
 ated with him in the earlier years, Dr. Walmesley, Mr.
 O'Keefe, Professor Miles Walker, Dr. Dennis Coales ; all
 have become in later years heads of Colleges or of Technical
 Departments in different parts of the country.

    During the vacation preceding his first Session at Finsbury,
 Thompson was fully occupied in preparations, and there was
 no possibility of taking a holiday, hence the following letter
 to Oliver Lodge, then at the British Association Meeting,

 dated September 7th, 1885 :

I"DEA"R  LODGE,     the liberty  of addressing  to you a small
         am taking
Iparcel which contains some polarising prisms which wish
Ito have shown to Section A. Much to my regret can't
come in person : but will post to you by later post the paper
Idescribing them, and also some sheet diagrams explaining
how these prisms are cut.        hope you will have a good
time, and will keep the ball rolling of making Section
                    TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBURY                     137

meetings productive of better results in the way of fuller and
more exhaustive discussions. We must get friclional pro

Iduction of currents next in hand : it must be explicable.

Fleming is going to be with you : think he's on the war
pa"thHaons  Electrolysis. So is Armstrong
            Sir W. Thomson given in yet ?      more 8uo.            your

fist at him again : he must cave in."          If not, shake

During the Christmas holidays he wrote to the same :

I" Apropos of your last circular (You've hit the way to
msuagkgeesutisonw--ornkam!) ealyn,d  your own experiments, may make a
                                      that you fill your (HC1) tube
previously with a jelly to which a little HC1 has been
added ? This will get rid of many difficulties arising from
currents. But probably you have thought of this before.
I think we ought to

e.g. , a jelly Daniell

Ijelly affects action.
                         make a set of special jelly experiments --
                         cell --and see how the presence of the

                           If you think well of it, will have
some experiments made on this matter."

To this Professor Lodge replied :

  I" No, had                                   in this connection,  but it's
Ian"APlleiadseea. try                          ; think it must      lead to
                    not thought      of jelly
                     your jelly      Daniell
                     It's very Guthriesque.
Isom" ethsihnagl.l  try a jelly tube very shortly.  Best wishes for

New Year."

   Thompson wrote again to the same, early in 1886, com
menting on an article in the Philosophical Magazine :

I" am delighted to see that when ' polemick ' is the
right thing, you are not afraid to polemicise. What reply

Ithere can be can hardly conceive. I'm the more delighted
Ibecause find you have rejected the specific heat of electricity
so completely. Now that you have brought down a sledge
Ihammer of common sense upon the thing shall be sur
Iprised if the misleading analogy does not die out.                 shall

"verywischuriouscoutold  learn what Sir W. Thomson says.
I Ibe                      report any progress on the few           things
I am hoping to do. All my days and nights are going on
Iadministrative work just now, and on devising much-needed
lecture illustrations.               got some jelly ready to make a
138 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON
'jelly Daniell.' It developed swarms of bacteria and

I Iother organisms before could even begin to use it. But

shall try again."

Many of the new students who came to Finsbury had

received little or no training in the art of making notes for

themselves of lectures or of laboratory work. Thompson

considered  this part of their training  t"onobete-otfaksinucgh"  great
importance  that he frequently held a                             class

at the beginning of a new Session, and would give up part

of his Saturday morning to drilling them in the art of

making notes which would be useful to themselves in after

life. He often told the new students :

I" want you to work hard at your notebooks in the
different subjects. You must make them so thoroughly
your own that they will be more useful to you during the
next twenty years than any textbook you can buy. Keep
a separate notebook for every subject, and so build up a
library of your own records of your own experiments. Of
course you must have -- and read -- other books for reference,
but your own will prove so valuable that you will go to
Ithem in future years if you want to look things up.
                                                                  do
I Inot know where got the notion, which never thought of
Ifor myself, but to this day have notebooks of forty years
ago, and find them useful." .

   Thompson was very strict with first-year students ; if
they wasted their time, were indolent and unpunctual,
showed no purpose in their work, and failed in the first
year's examinations, he would frequently advise their
parents or guardians to take them from the college, and

put them to other work. In a very few cases they were

allowed to repeat the first-year course.

   In order to help his students to get a grasp of the

Integral Calculus, a branch of mathematics absolutely
essential for the training of a mechanical or electrical

engineer, he invented a new way of presenting the subject

which was used for many years in the college. At last, in

1910, he published this in the form of a small volume entitled

Calculus made Easy, by "F.R.S." It was brought out by

Macmillan's, and the secret of its authorship was faithfully
§

 o

HH

8

I

I
TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBURY                  139

kept until after the death of the author. It was written

in a very amusing colloquial style, which raised the ire of

some of the serious teachers of mathematics who objected
to the subject being treated as a joke, but its tremendous

success showed that it met the need of students. In the

Prologue he says :

I" Being myself a remarkably stupid fellow,  have had

to unteach myself the difficulties, and now beg to present
to my fellow fools the parts that are not hard. Master

these thoroughly, and the rest will follow. What one
fool can do, another can."

  In the Epilogue he says :
   " There are amongst young engineers a number on whose

ears the adage that, what one fool can do another can, may
fall with a familiar sound. They are earnestly requested
not to give the author away, nor to tell the mathematicians
what a fool he really is."

   The students who knew the secret kept it carefully. The
reviewer in the Athenceum said :

  "It is not often that it falls to the lot of a reviewer of

mathematical literature to read such a gay and boisterous
book as this ' very simplest introduction to those beautiful
methods of reckoning which are generally called by the
terrifying names of the differential calculus and the integral
calculus.' As a matter of fact, professional mathematicians
will give a warm welcome to a book which is so orthodox
in its teaching and so vigorous in its exposition."

   Another critic wrote :

   " Not only is this book an admirable introduction to the

calculus, but it is more than that. It is a broad philosophy

Iof life, and as such will endear itself to all men who have

been through Part Mechanics. It is worth buying for

the jokes alone ; and as for its mathematics, the principles
of differentiation and integration as presented by the
anonymous author would be intelligible even to a Botany
man. AU textbooks should be written in this style."

Many appreciatory letters were sent to "F.R.S." through
140 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

the publishers, and his colleague, Professor E. G. Coker,

F.R.S., wrote:

  I" am very pleased to hear that your little book on the

Calculus is likely to be available for general use. As you

Iknow, have been teaching the elements of this subject to
Ithe junior classes here for some years, and do not know of
any other book so well adapted to give fundamental ideas.
One of the great merits of the book is that it dispels the
Imysteries with which professional mathematicians envelope
the subject.    feel sure that your little book, with its

common sense way of dealing with elementary ideas of the

calculus, will be a great success."

    The book had to be reprinted three times during the year

after it was published. In 1914 a new edition, with errata

corrected and a considerable number of new examples
added, appeared. This was reviewed in The Mathematical
Gazette by Professor Alfred Lodge, a distinguished mathe

matician, brother of Sir Oliver Lodge. His criticisms were
somewhat severe, but he wrote :

   " The work is very sound as a whole -- and it is not sur
prising to see that the book has met with a good deal of
success, as it carries the practical student to a very useful
point."

  In 1916 Professor Alfred Lodge somehow discovered the

authorship, and wrote to Thompson for confirmation of the

"Itfact, promising to preserve the anonymity and saying :
Iwas a courageous book to write, and congratulate you on

its great success."

Sir Oliver Lodge wrote :

"  MY"  DEAR SILVANUS,

        You know that      book  Easy  Lessons        in  the  Calwlus,
I have concluded that the book is by John Perry, but recently
I Ihave heard it attributed to yourself.              do not in the least

think that that is true, but perhaps you would not mind
sending me a postcard either of denial or acceptance, for
evidently                      not
           the  anonymity  is       "caYroeufurlsl"y   preserved.

                                                      ever,
                                                      OLIVER LODGE."
TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBURY                      141

   After the death of the author the book was published in
his name, and is still being largely used, both in this country

and in America.

   In 1893 the Director and Secretary of the Municipal

Technical School, Manchester, Mr. J. H. Reynolds, writing to

Thompson about a Conference on Technical Education

which was being held there, says :

I" am very sorry indeed to learn from your letter that
Iyou are not able to be present at the Meeting.  think you
Iwould have helped to put fhe objects of the Meeting on a
sound basis.  am with you entirely in your desire that

the organisation should be educational rather than

pro"feFsisnisobnualr.y is to me the prototype of what Technical

ISchools should aim to be. In saying this refer to the
Iorganisation, method, and aims of that school, and have

striven as far as circumstances permit to realise these condi

tions in the Manchester School, but very few indeed of
those who will meet to-morrow control schools of like aim."

   Like every other college, Finsbury had, of course, its Old
Students' Association. In early years they used to give a
soiree for the students and their friends, which used to
overflow into some of the rooms of the Cowper Street School
behind, kindly lent for the occasion, a covered way being

erected across the playground of the school to connect the
two buildings. When the old students began to be num
bered by thousands, this was given up, and an annual
dinner was instituted at which the Principal almost invari
ably presided. There was also an Old Students' Magazine,
with a portrait (somewhat of a caricature) of Thompson
on the outside cover. There were smaller societies of

Chemical Students and Electrical Students which maintained

the esprit de corps of their own departments.
    The following extracts from a letter from Professor

William Ernest Dalby, F.R.S., who succeeded Professor
Perry in the chair of Engineering, gives an idea of the
position which Thompson had reached with staff and
 students after nine years' administrative work :
142 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

    I" was appointed to the Professorship of Mechanical
Engineering and Applied Mathematics at Finsbury in 1896.
The Principal was to everyone in the college ' The Doctor.'
His influence over the students was wide and deep. Prob

ably every   student who    entered the college knew him
through his                  is certain that every student
              writings. It
Iwhen he left the college was
                               aIftfewctaiosnaotnellyy   devoted to him,
and knew him as a friend.                               a few weeks ago
that ran across an old student of his who considered that

the greatest good he carried away from him was not what
he learnt in the lecture-room and laboratory, but guidance
in his theological difficulties, which helped him to a rule
    "lifNeo
of           which he has practised consistently.
              doubt this same experience could
                                                        be  multiplied  by

many others. The devotion of the^ students to the Doctor
was shown enthusiastically when he appeared on the

platform during the one soiree of the year. All must
remember the wild and enthusiastic greeting he always

Irec"eiHveed.was helpful to students and staff in every way

one man can be helpful to another, and am sure letters of
acknowledgment from old students, of help and guidance
received, would be enough to fill a book."

    Professor Dalby left Finsbury in 1904, being appointed

 to the Professorship of Civil and Mechanical Engineering
 at the then Central Technical College, now a part of the

Imperial College of Science and Technology. It was

 during his time, and owing greatly to the success of his

department, that an anonymous donor offered £10,000
towards an extension of the college if the Institute of the
City Guilds would give £20,000 ; this offer was accepted.
The new Engineering wing was opened in October 1907
by the Lord Mayor, and the extension of the building pro
vided incidentally much better accommodation both for the

Principal and for the Art Department.

   Professor Ernest G. Coker, who succeeded to the chak of

Mechanical Engineering, was also a very friendly colleague ;
he was engaged for some years in a series of researches on
stresses in materials such as are used in engineering. He

devised a means of showing how they occurred by executing

models in transparent celluloid, examining them by polarised
              TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBURY                       143

light. These researches, which gained for him the Fellow
ship of the Royal Society, were deeply interesting to
Thompson. Professor Coker wrote of him :

   " To his artistic instinct experimental work on light
appealed with especial force, and it always remained a
dominant attraction. His knowledge of this branch of

Iscience, in fact, was quite as encyclopaedic as in the electrical

field, and one could go to him, as often did, with some
perplexing question, perhaps on polarisation phenomena,
or an allied topic, and find in him a mine of. information.
Form and colour especially appealed to him, and he revelled
in the gorgeous displays which this kind of work afforded,
and to which he contributed many new and original experi
ments and ideas."

It was the habit of the Principal to give every year an

address to the new students. On one occasion some of his

assistants desired to preserve one of these addresses, and

had it taken down in shorthand. It has since been pub

lished in a Memorial Number of The Old Students'" Magazine,

with notes by Mr. Robert P. Howgrave Graham, who was

associated with him as student and assistant for seventeen

years. The addresses were of course varied, and altered

somewhat in character  w" iFthinsthbeurdyevgeoloinpgmetnot  of  the college ;
in 1885 the note was                                        be  a success."

" References to the Old Students Association, to the
Literary and Debating Societies, and to all the athletic

clubs, rowing, swimming, running, cricket, and football,

brought these under the notice of the new students, and

showed his enthusiasm for everything which tended to
provide students with common aims, or to enlarge the

scope of their interests. In 1895, when he had completed a
decade of hard and successful work, and felt some pride in
its fruits, he faced a room full of new students, to whom he

spoke of the Inventors, Consulting Engineers, Discoverers,

and"  Big   Factory   Managers   who had sat there before them.
      He   used to   tell them,  ' What one fool can do another
can,' ' Genius is the genius to work hard,' ' We can hope
to be at least happy in that we found our work in the world
and did it.'
144 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   " The spirit and ideals which governed his intercourse

with students and others who worked under him at the

college are typified by a small shield which hung in his
room there, emblazoned with a line from Chaucer's descrip

tion of the poor parson : ' If golde ruste what shall iren do ? '
Finsbury records certainly show that some at least of its
students cany away enough of its atmosphere to save them
from rust, and they will surely remember with ever fresh

gratitude the untarnished gold in the character and teaching
of their old Principal. His wonderful memory is well known
to those who have left the College as youngsters, and on their
return after long years -- responsible, much changed, and
                                       -- have received
paenrdhaipnsitiablesa--rdpeedrhmapesn   even by date       his  greeting by  name
                                                         and    department.
                                                                               His
special memory for faces and persons was partly the out
come of his keen interest in the welfare of his students, and

was valuable in the preparation of the annual lists which
show their subsequent occupations. He was delighted when
anyone enabled him to correct or amplify the printed proof
which always lay on his table, and though its revision was
a labour of love, it was by no means a light task, since old

students have not always kept the College informed of their

movements. In the last year or two of his life, he com

plained that an occasional name in the long list carried with
it no memory of its owner, and felt this to be a sign of

advancing years ; nevertheless he retained sufficient mental
vigour to excite the envy of many an ordinary man in his

prim" eA.nd.   ..   that  he           has  gone,  our thoughts    turn from

               now

the past to the future influence of his life and work. Has
his ' Quest for Truth ' been consummated or merely ended
where he left it, or is he still exploring new and strange paths,
nearer to the light, with clearer vision and fewer limita
tions ? Whatever may be the answer of the individual, we
know that the Doctor's philosophy and teaching had a pro
found effect which will long survive him, helping students,
scientific workers, and engineers for many generations.
The more personal and human side of his character will
exert its influence at least while any Finsbury men who

knew him remain alive. Numerous letters from them have

been preserved among his correspondence, and show a
depth of affection which many more have felt without
giv"inPgasitt
               definite expression.         go  across the world,  returning
               students come and
            TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBURY                                                  145

from time to time to see how things are at the old place in
Leonard Street, and long experience has shown that their
first desire has almost invariably been to see the Doctor
or to hear news of him."

   The address to new students which is printed in The
Memorial Magazine is too long to quote in these pages, but
the last paragraphs sum up a good deal of its teaching :

    "Finsbury students have a reputation for hard work,
for not being afraid to take off their coats or to get dirty,
and for avoiding running after degrees merely for their own
sake. We have had to make our own reputation, and
though twenty-five years ago Finsbury had not begun to

Ibe known, it is different now. A little while ago was at
the Exhibition at Turin, and met two old students who
promptly invited me to dinner. In Switzerland more
Irecently saw at least one old student, and at Breslau,
I Ithough
            did not see an old student,                                               saw a man who

employed two. From China to Peru there are old Finsbury

men, and one is the chief engineer at Shanghai dockyard
at the present time. Many of these past students come
back here now, for they have old friends to see and old

Irecollections to revive by visiting the College, and they
know that we are always glad to see them.                                             can never

be satisfied unless the students who go out into the world
keep up the reputation which has been won for the College

IbImtyucitshheafirqrmueeaprlui.ttyatIiootfnitshneaotsmtufoodsuetnndtpseredcwiohouons  have already gone out.
    t"hMinagkeofitwyhoicuhr                                                           air, but on something
                                                                                       possession for us, and
                                       all of you should also be
a                               think  to live up to it, to add to                    proud.
                             business                                                 it, and

if  p"oFsosirbletheto   excel in all   things which you undertake.
                       rest let each    of you try to maintain the
                                                                                         high
standard of conduct which has been upheld here in the
past, avoiding all that is contrary to manliness and delicacy
of thought and feeling, and acting together for the promo
        of  all that is      really worth having and doing.
tio"n       this way         you can build for yourselves on                          a  sure
       In
foundation, not only as engineers, but as men."

   Finsbury College attracted to its laboratories men of
many nations besides the young Englishmen who were

         10
146 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

afterwards to be found in every country of the globe : there

were Belgians, Germans, Swiss, Hindoos, Chinese and

IJb"aepTgahanene, sDe"ocatmokronn"ogwfrtohtmehasttmudayenonyutsv.laikrieeTdhteoscleehtneteeasrrs   which came to
                                                                                                  of labour often
                                                                                                  from your old

students," and the writers went on to tell their experiences

in the various electrical works, some in the States, or in

India, or Johannesberg, or Buda Pesth, or Russia.

Many would probably tell of much success, others of

having got into the wrong branch of work, and begging for

a fresh recommendation. Thompson through his Technical

writings was in touch with electrical firms, and would

receive letters from them about his old students, often

ending up with remarks such as, " If you have any more
          like X
fellows            leaving         college  ssuocohn",  p; loera,se"  send them along
to us ;  we could   do with         many                              We want a man in

osuupr pDlyyntahme onedeedsig? n"  office, or our  Drawing                                        office ; can you
                                                   of many                                         sessions, every
                                    At the end

qualified student who was leaving had already secured a

post through the college. This was a great boon to students

who had no one to push them, and Thompson gained the

reputation of being very specially kind to widows' sons.

Many students, of course, did not desire posts immediately,

and went on for further study in some University in England

or abroad.

   But these last, too, kept up a correspondence with their
former Principal. A Chinese student who went to study at

Charlottenburg wrote several times in his quaint English,

which became quainter still during his stay in Germany.

  In his first letter he says :

I" Next week        shall begin to study German language
Iproperly in the coming days.                      sincerely hope that your
example, as well as your kind instructions, have possessed
Isufficient influence over my conduct. Moreover, was very
Ihappy in                                                                                         was
                                                                                                   for
in your
          enjoying  Ittheislemctuyreosppanodrtuenxiptyerimtoentths anwkheynou
         college.
Iyour kind instructions and advice.
would wish and have taught to live." \                  am living as you

Some months later he writes :
         TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBURY                    147

I" How are you, Sir ?            hope you are quite well in your
land. Your instructions profited me very much, even now
I Iam in Germany always remembered your sayings in
IFinsbury College. Since         came to Germany having
nothing improved but learning German language day after

Iday. In this spring have entered the Technical High
ISchool in Charlottenburg, Berlin, in which am taking a
course of metallurgy, specially for the metallurgy of Iron.
Can you recommend me several kinds of chemistry and

Ioth"er  universal  technical Science magazines ?
         am much
                    obliged you. " Yours very respectfully,"

   A Spanish student wrote from Huesca, where he had been
appointed to take charge of a Hydro-Electric station :

   " We have a waterfall 40 kilometres distant capable of

Ifurnishing 1,000 horse-power. At the same time am the

agent to the Westinghouse Company for a certain district
in "thDiseaNr oDrtohc. tor Thompson, one of the greatest possible
pleasures for me would be to know that you were disposed

Ito a trip in Spain, and to put myself at your orders.

Iknow that in more than one occasion have been rough,
Iungrateful, and the like. This was only apparently. The

truth is that keep a most grateful remembrance of my

I Istay in England. People call me here : the Englishman.
   cannot forget how indebted am to yourself."
                                                                                                                                                     9

  A Belgian who went from Finsbury to Electrical works at

Chelmsf ord wrote :

" There are many from Finsbury here, Wright, Church,
ILewis, Ashton,                  mtyhebetgwinoninfogrmeearsy.speIctiailslyalwwaeyrse

very kind to me,
                    Sheppard  ;
                    and made
                              soon found out that, if to come
a very awkward time.
from Finsbury is a recommendation, it is also a cause for
hearty welcome, and that in the country as in the city,
Finsbury men stick together and are proud of the tie."

   The same student afterwards took up the teaching of
mathematics, and was associated with Thompson in the
revision of some of his mathematical work. Years later,
148 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

when he was a married man and father of two sons,
Thompson sent him a copy of his Life of Kelvin, and he wrote :

   " Your magnificent gift has arrived yesterday, and you

Imay guess that all other business had to be put aside for

the rest of the day, while perused the two volumes --the
finest ones in my library."

   One or  two of  "hisansdtuwdeonutlsd  named their sons after their
revered "  Doctor                        send him photographs of the

youngsters, and perhaps proudly boast of precocious traits

showing aptness for an engineering training.

Thompson's increasing public engagements obliged him

after some years of London life to engage the services of a
private secretary. No fewer than seven old Finsbury

students served him in this capacity, Professor Miles

Walker being the first and also the longest with him. He

proved a great help, and assisted in many important re

searches. After his departure to study at Cambridge, he

was succeeded by Dr. Dennis Coales, who also eventually

took up the teaching profession ; those who followed all

went into engineering posts with different Electric firms

after two or three years of the training which work under

Thompson entailed. They all became his firm and devoted

friends and parted from him with regret.

Some of his other students remained on at Finsbury

as assistants in the Electrical department of the college.

Mr. Stratten Holmes, who had been with him for many

years, wrote :

  I" shall always remember my long association with the

late Dr. Thompson, first as a student, and then as one of his
assistants at Finsbury ; his interesting lectures and his
kindly help and advice in times of difficulty and worry.
He will be greatly missed by those who had the privilege of
knowing him and working with him."

   Mr. Charles Gorick wrote :

  " It was my pleasure to work for him for fourteen years
Iat Finsbury from the time he was appointed chief, and
                         THE "DOCTOR" AMONG HIS APPABATUS.
                    J.From a photograph taken by Russell it Sons about 1910.

148]
TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBUEY                         149

have nothing but pleasant memories in connection with his

Igood and glorious work, more especially of my duties as his

lecture assistant. Like many, many more, feel the loss
of so true a friend and kind master, and will remember
him always for his most noble manner, for which he was so
greatly admired by all those who came in contact with him."

    Another wrote that, during all his years as assistant, he
had never heard Thompson utter an unkind word to anyone.
His extraordinary patience was always a marvel to those
who worked under him, and seemed to spur them all on to
do their best. His perfect calmness as a lecturer and
experimenter was an immense help to his assistants. On

one occasion, when he was giving a public lecture to an

audience of many hundreds, a small piece of apparatus,

which was being used in an experiment in a projection
lantern, gave way suddenly, owing to the heat of the lantern.
He calmly left the subject, and passed on to other experi
ments in front of him, while Mr. Walker and Mr. Thomas

deftly soldered the apparatus there on the platform, and
in about a quarter of an hour he turned and resumed the
experiment, explaining what had occurred, and saying that
he counted himself fortunate to have assistants who could

perform such an operation on a public platform without
disturbing the progress of the lecture. The public appreci
ated the deed, and gave them a round of applause.

   The student who worked longest with Thompson, and at
the end of nineteen years was still serving him, Mr. Robert
Howgrave Graham, wrote that :

   " Having found that contact with him brought always

Iincreasing love and reverence towards him, may speak
Ispteurdseonntas l--ly oaldndanidntipmreasteenlyt   multitude of
on behalf of                                     a  once heard a
at Finsbury.                                        at a dinner--

speech given by a rough-spoken past student
almost passionately warm and calling forth storms of
enthusiasm. He said that : ' The Doctor ' was the only
name in Finsbury students' hearts, and that all the world
over it had only one possible meaning when they met.
Finsbury was ' The Doctor ' inseparably, and the magic

name always warmed a Finsbury man's heart as the name
150 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

of a certain and never-forgetting friend as well as teacher.
This was no exaggeration."

Another old student wrote :

I" can bear testimony to the reality of the remarkable
friendship that existed between Professor Silvanus Thompson
and his pupils, a friendship of which the seeds were sown
in his ' Opening Address ' to the new students, and which

grew to be strong and lasting during the happy days at
College, where, in his gifted hands, to learn was a recreation.
Professor Thompson was popular, but not in the ordinary
sense of the word. Our regard for him was of a different
     deeper nature. He had no
and  knew our Doctor for the         ggreenaetramllyanactcheapttedheniwckansa--mwe.e
We
knew his talents would have brought him far greater fame
had he sought worldly advancement --in a vague way we
knew him to be the holder of earnest convictions, which led
him to neglect self, and give to us of his best--we each
knew him as a personal friend and counsellor. His cheerful

word of advice or encouragement, his real goodness of heart,

and above all his downright sincerity, drew from us our

friendship, regard, and respect.

I I"As a teacher the Doctor was extraordinarily interesting.
  have listened to many lectures on scientific subjects, but
have yet to hear the lecturer who can be compared with

him. In Physics and Electricity he had subjects which
appeared to give special scope for the application of his
talents, but we found that any subject that he touched upon
Iiwmap"sreOmsfsaedtdheebtoyDobhecistoohrf'osanbemssotayrnb--yingthqeuinaatlietvireeerssatg. e
                                                                                               was perhaps most
                                                                                               ' honest ' man was
not in the same street ! Humbug and hypocrisy, even in
their very mildest forms, were entirely foreign to his nature
I--
y"eSthhoertwlyas   a model of tact.  Finsbury                                                  asked his advice
                  before leaving

regarding my attitude towards my prospective employer,
then unknown. In reply          to             qi"nue?tsht' iiosnhe,mas'naSnihdeo,ru--l'dThoecanrene
                                      m" ySir
address a Works Manager          as
Iare some who wish to be addressed
Isafely                                          '                                             do not know that
     leave  you to       judge  your  man
                                               !
I could have had better advice or that it could have been
Imore                    certainly made it my business to

judge
     cleverly     pu"t.
     my man
                  I
TECHNICAL COLLEGE, FINSBURY                                               151

   This chapter seems to close fitly with the following lines
from a poem by an old student, written in memoriam :

" Great Teacher, thou art gone ! We look in vain

For such a lamp as thine to grace again

The path of learning and its lagging hours,

Showing amid the rocks the hiding flowers.

Thy flame was twofold ; all the world well knew

How thy clear intellect in lustre grew
With passing years, and flinging far its rays
In speech of flawless crystal, lit the ways

Where pilgrims journeyed in the quest for Truth.

We sought it with the eager eyes of youth

To learn how man his wealth from Nature drawa

And found the ordered structure of her lawa

Like storied architecture, height on height,

Soaring beyond our vision into light

Of Truth yet unrevealed. To thee of old

We came for silver, and thy gift was gold ;

Like thee  we found  mthyestefaryithofthcaotmKmnoonwltehdingges.b'ri"ngs
Through '  the deep

                                               R. P. H. a.
                      CHAPTER VIII

LIFE IN LONDON, THE ROYAL INSTITUTION. BIOGRAPHY OP

                      FARADAY. UNIVERSITY REFORM

IT was not without considerable regret that the Thompsons

left their pretty little home in Clifton in 1885. They had
been living among an intellectual and congenial circle of
friends whom they knew that they should miss greatly.

   They had made many friends among the large Quaker
community in Bristol, and visits to the beautiful homes of

Lewis Fry, M.P., of Francis J. Fry, who was an amateur

scientist, of Albert Fry, who was Chairman of the College,
of Thomas Pease at Westbury-on-Trym, of the Wedmores of
Druid Stoke, of many members of the Sturge family, were
all times to be remembered.

   Then there were the friends and supporters of the college,
Mr. Joseph Weston, Mr. Samuel and Mr. William Budgett,
Mr. Frederick and Mr. H. 0. Wills, Mr. Mark Whitwill, Dr.
Beddoe, F.R.S., Mr. F. Gilmore Barnett, brother of Canon
Barnett, and many other worthy citizens, who in honouring
the college extended their hospitality also to its Professors.

   Among Thompson's colleagues, Professor and Mrs.
Rowley, who lived in a charming house in the Leigh Woods,
Professor Main, and Dr. and Mrs. Ramsay, were their most
intimate friends. There were also many among the staff
at Clifton College with whom there was much in common.
After Dr. Percival went to Oxford he was succeeded by the

Rev. J. M. Wilson (afterwards Canon Wilson), and Thompson

was deeply impressed by his fine religious teaching. Dr.
William Tilden (afterwards Sir William Tilden, F.R.S.) Mr.
A. M. Worthington (afterwards Professor A. M. Worthington,
F.R.S. ), and the Rev. Philip Sleeman were scientific friends,

                                                                     152
                LIFE IN LONDON,                   153

whom he had the opportunity of meeting again in London

at scientific gatherings, when old friendships were renewed.

The beautiful surroundings of Clifton held great charm

for Thompson, and he and his wife used to take long rambles
in the Leigh Woods, to Coombe Dingle and through Shire-

hampton Park to Pen Pole Point. In two minutes from

their home they could be on the Downs, and they knew

every cranny where the bee orchis grew or the rocks were
covered with the little yellow rock rose, and they of ten took
evening walks across to the cliffs above the Avon. But the
joy of being in the midst of the eager progressive group of
scientific men at work in London outweighed the loss of

the joys of nature so near at hand in Clifton.

The first home in London was in Bayswater, in a dingy

row of high houses called Arundel Gardens, the attraction

to the house being the large square behind where the children

could play. He, and his wife also, had a good many old
friends in the neighbourhood. Dr. Gladstone was in Pern-

bridge Square not far off, Sir William Crookes lived on the
hill above, and used to be at home to his scientific friends

in his library on Sunday evenings, when many a discussion
took place. Professor Ayrton lived on Campden Hill,

Professor Adams in Notting Hill Square. After wards, when

Dr. Ramsay came to London, he too chose Arundel Gardens,

and later Professor Perry also came to live in the same

neighbourhood.

   Arundel Gardens, however, proved to be a rather foggy
situation, so after five years the Thompsons moved away to

a house of their own with a private garden at West Hamp-

stead, then on the outskirts of London, and surrounded by

fields,  ilton"gMsoinrclaencdov"eraefdterwihthis  houses and flats. Thompson
called                                            ancestral home in Westmor

land, and it was for twenty-six years a meeting-place for a

large and varied circle of friends, and its visitors' book is

adorned by the names of many scientific men who came to

stay in the quiet home.
   Not long after coming to London, Thompson was ap

pointed one of the examiners in Physics for the University,
and frequently one of his fellow-examiners would come to
154 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

stay with him, while they were engaged in correction of the

papers.   Of these,  qPuriotefesfsroerqueGnetolrygemaFdrean"ciMs orFlaitnzdge"ralhdis,
         of Dublin,
F.R.S.,

home while in town. His was a fascinating personality, full

of fun and Irish humour. He was some years younger than

Thompson, but his snow-white hair and beard made him

look years older. The colleagues used to enliven their

tedious labours by jokes over the howlers perpetrated by

the unfortunate examinees. Another who used to come to

London for the same purpose was Professor Poynting of

Birmingham. He too was a welcome guest and great friend.

Thompson had stayed with him in Birmingham on one or

J.two occasions. Professor 0. Lodge too paid at least one

visit to "Morland."

Thompson soon found that during the winter months,

when the evening lectures were in progress at Finsbury,

and the meetings of the various Scientific Societies to which

he belonged were being held, it was necessary to limit the

acceptance of dinner engagements very severely, if he was

ever to have any time at home to devote to his writings.

As an official of one of the colleges of the City Guilds,

it was almost obligatory upon him to accept a certain number

of invitations to dine with the great City Companies, and on

these occasions it was often his duty to make an after-dinner

speech. He was glad of this opportunity to bring the

college under the notice of the wealthy City magnates. He

soon gained for himself the reputation of being a very good

after-dinner speaker, and at the annual dinners of Scientific

Societies he was often called upon to exercise this gift. He

was never dull, and although he sometimes made use of such

occasions to bring forward some aspect of science which he

thought was being neglected, the apt quotation, the flash

of wit, always enlivened what he had to say, and carried
his hearers along in sympathy with him.

He was still as hard a worker as ever. Professor Barrett

wrote to him :

"Mv"     DEAR   THOMPSON,      power  of  work is   I  That  was
               wonderful your             said to      --he  was
         How                                       me
almost the last thing G. F. Fitzgerald
                        LIFE IN LONDON                                       155

lamenting to me how little he had done, and how many
things he had neglected. ' Now, if Silvanus Thompson had
been in my place,' he said, ' you would have seen the garden
Iin order, the library books all catalogued, all the references

  am looking for tabulated and pasted in a book, and every
thing else properly done ; he has a wonderful power of
Iwo"rkReaandllyordaemr.' more than grateful to you, and am amazed
         esausreeanCdlesrpkeeMdawxwithellwnheicvheryosuaidhav' ecerlelsa,d'
Iat the                                     it                               those proofs.
   was                                                                       but without
                                                         Your letter is just
awchtautalI  proof did  not like  to cross      out.
              wanted,   to quote  from."

  In the midst of his many duties, however, he did not forget

his old friends of Bristol University College, and we find in
The Times in December 1888 a letter on the subject of the
English University Colleges which were still struggling along

without support from the Government. He wrote :

"Sra," It is greatly to be regretted that the Parliamentary
Session should have been allowed to close without some
protest at the way in which, after the intimation given
early in the year by the Right Hon. the Chancellor of the

Exchequer, the interests of the provincial University
Colleges are still neglected. To a financier who can deal
with £50,000,000 at a time, a matter involving only £50,000
may seem paltry ; yet to one or two of the English University
Colleges, the neglect to provide them this year with the
                                                         a condition peri
...promised pecuniary   suIptpoisrtlitmtleayshmoretaonf  a scandal that not

lously near ruin.
Ione penny of Imperial funds is given for the support of the
higher teaching.        speak with some knowledge, not having

yet forgotten my nine years' experience as a teacher in an
English University College."

  In March 1889 this long due reform was carried out by a

provision in the Estimates of the Chancellor of the Exchequer
for grants to English University Colleges. The battle was
won, though the grants were at first very small.

   Soon after Thompson came to London he was proposed
and elected a Member of the Royal Institution, which he had

so eagerly visited, and where he had so diligently attended
156 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

the lectures of Tyndall and Gladstone in his student days,

just ten years previously.
    The Royal Institution in Albermarle Street is not only

famous as a centre of scientific research and glories in
having had men like Humphrey Davy, Faraday, and
Tyndall at its head, but it is also a most delightful place
of reunion for men of science, and those who desire to learn

from them. It possesses famous laboratories, two endowed

Professorships, several endowed Lectures, an excellent
lecture hall which accommodates about 1,200 people, ante

rooms and libraries where members can meet and read
and study. Courses of lectures are given on three days of
the week, all of which members can attend, and which are
open to the public on payment of a fee for the course. Oil
Friday evenings the libraries are thrown open for a meeting
of members and their friends only, and on that occasion a

special discourse is given by invitation of the managers,
by some famous scientific investigator or traveller on the
very latest invention or discovery of the day.

   This discourse is given in the lecture hall, the chair being
taken by the President of the Royal Institution or some
scientific man of eminence among the members ; it begins
at nine o'clock, and is supposed to occupy not more than

one hour.

   The first time Thompson attended one of these gatherings
as a member was on Friday, January 22nd, 1886, and his
wife, who accompanied him, jotted down some notes about
that memorable evening :

   " The first object which attracts attention in the Royal

Institution is an imposing marble statue of Michael Faraday,
which stands in the entrance hall at the foot of the staircase.
He is represented holding in his hand a coil of wire and a
bar magnet, by means of which he made the wonderful
electromagnetic observations which formed the foundation
of the discovery of the dynamo-electric machines. On the
staircase which ascends to right and left hang portraits of
Count Rumford, the founder, and Sir Humphrey Davy.

In the library upstairs were arranged various scientific

exhibits which could be inspected both before and after
the discourse.
                   THE ROYAL INSTITUTION                          157

"I was looking forward with pleasure to this lecture,
which was to ba given by Professor Tyndall, who was so
famous as a scientific expositor. The subject was ' Wave
Forms.' But such a disappointment ! Poor old man, he
maundered on for an hour and twenty minutes, repeating
himself over and over. He gave us a life of Thomas Young
with very little mention of ' Wave Forms ' at all. He is
a weird-looking, thin, stooping old man with long grey
hair hanging from a high, narrow head. He has a decided
Iris"hAfbtreorgutehenolewctuarned
                                    then, and uses curious   gestures.    to
                                   was over the audience    strolled out

the library. Going through the anteroom, which is adorned
with historical pictures and busts of famous men and Mrs.
Somerville, we encountered Professor David Hughes

(in"veHnetoirsofa  the Microphone) and  his wife, who is an American.
                    hearty old fellow   with a shock head of iron-

grey hair ; he smote Silvanus on the shoulder with his hand

and called him ' My boy ' ! In the library we had a talk
with Mr. Crookes (inventor of the Radiometer) and his
wif"e.WitThheoyurliovled  not far away from us.
                          friend Mr. Preece we had  a       chat  about the
                                   to. He remarked : ' When you
we had just listened               that stage, hope some friend
Thompson, come to
IalencdturIe,
will be kind enough to prevent our making an exhibition of
ourselves.' 'Faraday was wise,' said                              ' to give
up at once when he felt himself failing. '  Silvanus,             Faraday

                                            ' Ah ! but
'Ifailed too the last time he spoke here.'
                                                            never heard
I Ihim,' said Silvanus, ' have assisted him at lectures.
used to come here as far back as 1845,' said Mr. Preece.

That was six years before Silvanus was born."

   During the next thirty years the Thompsons were habitues
of the Royal Institution, and were generally to be seen on
Friday nights, seated on the right of the lecturer above

the places reserved for the professors and officers of the

Institution. In later years Mrs. Thompson was also elected

a member, and they were often accompanied by one or two
of their daughters. The opening lecture referred to above
was the last ever given at the Institution by Professor

Tyndall, once its brilliant resident professor. He was
succeeded by Professor James Dewar, F.R.S. (afterwards
Sir James Dewar), who with his wife resided in the rooms

above the Institution, which they adorned with most lovely
158 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

tapestries, carvings, and other works of art. Here an inner

circle of scientific friends used to meet after the Friday

discourse to enjoy their kind hospitality and continue

discussions of the lectures and new discoveries which had

just been described.

The Friday night lectures often made landmarks in the

public knowledge of scientific phenomena. After a few

years Thompson was asked to give accounts of the latest

discoveries on some line of research in which he was

interested. The first in 1889 was entitled by him "Optical

Torque."

Thompson always considered that a Royal Institution

audience on Members' nights was the most difficult one to

address of any that he came across. It was not possible to

start off one's subject on a purely scientific basis, and not

recognise that there were always many present who knew

little or nothing of science, so these had to be introduced,

as it were, to the previously known facts which led up to it.

Then there were nearly always sure to be some present who

knew as much or perhaps more of the subject than the

lecturer himself ; for these must be prepared new and

ingenious experiments, so that they too might find something

of interest. In his lectures to this audience Thompson

was successful to a high degree, and he generally had a
very full house.

After his first, he received from his old Clifton friend the

Rev. Philip Sleeman, who had been present, the following

letter :
I"
I IR"AK   DR. THOMPSON,     to  offer  my congratulations
          send a few lines

upon your discourse at the Royal Institution. Judging by
I Ithe remarks which overheard, think your audience was
Ivery much pleased.    enjoyed it greatly, as you may
suppose, and should have liked to have stopped the clock,
Iso that we might have had rather more of it.    hope you
                                             '  Abstract '
will be able to spare me a copy of the usual
Iwhen you receive it.  half expected to see the lecture in
Nature last week. Your use of the string to show the

polarisation of vibrations was most excellent, and also
the radial sector, etc., to show the effect of rotation of the
                     THE ROYAL INSTITUTION                     159

plane of polarisation. These were both of them, doubtless,
quite new. . . . The Royal Institution people have now
had an opportunity of seeing that Spottiswoode's brilliant
                            still be presented   to them with  additions,
eanxpderIimheonptes    can  will profit by the  experience."
                     they

The next Discourse given there by Thompson was entirely

upon the great researches of another man, Dr. Koenig of

Paris, of  whose work on Sound very little      ewnatsitlekndo, w"nThine
England.
            It was given in 1890, and was

Physical Foundation of Music."

Dr. Koenig sent for exhibition all the instruments and

apparatus used for his researches. He lived in seclusion,

surrounded by splendid apparatus, which had been seen

and appreciated by Thompson during some of his brief

visits to Paris. The Musical World, commenting on the

lecture, wrote :

   " One of the most important lectures given in England
for some years on the Theory of Sound was delivered by Dr.
Silvanus P. Thompson, on Dr. Koenig's theories and recent
discoveries concerning musical sounds. Dr. Thompson
spoke extemporaneously for over an hour, and said that
Dr. Koenig's deductions had been drawn from physical
experiments extending over twenty years."

   This lecture led to considerable correspondence and
criticism, and to one inquirer, Mr. R. H. Bosanquet, F.R.S.,

Thompson wrote :

  I" will put your query to Dr. Koenig, and send you his

Ireply. Please bear in mind that on Friday spoke purely
Ias the exponent of Koenig's views, not necessarily of my

own : otherwise should have said something in criticism
of the whole method of wave-sirens, and should have

Isuppressed sundry other things that Koenig wished to be
said.  wish you had been in front of the wave-sirens, as

they can not be heard from behind with any success."

  In 1891    T"hoTmhepsDonyngaamveo."his  first course of four afternoon
                                          This year also, at the age of
lectures on

forty, there came to him the honour of receiving the blue
160 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

ribbon of Science through his election to the Fellowship

of the Royal Society.

For two or three years previously to this, people had

been questioning why his work had not been already

I Irecognised by that

it, he always said,
              "bodya.m   When they spoke to                                 him about
                                                                            my time."
                         in no hurry.  bide

When the recognition did come, he was pleased and gratified,

and so were many of his friends.

Professor Perry wrote :

  I" DEA" RCoTnHgOraMtPuSlaOtNio,ns are usual in these cases, and

therefore send you them. But it is the R. S. that ought
to be congratulated."

Sir William Crookes wrote :

"My      DBAR SILVANUS, F.R.S.,

      "  Ten  thousan"d   congratulations !
                         From very sin"ceWreILlyLIAyMoursC,ROOKES."

From Mr. J. Fletcher Moult mi (afterwards Lord Moulton) :

" Let me congratulate you very heartily on your F.R.S.
I J.cannot
         understand      w"hyYoiut rhsa"sevbeeFreLnsEidTnecCelHaryeEelRyd,   so long.
                                                                            MOULTON."

   From the Council of the Junior Engineering Society :

   " Hearing with the greatest gratification of the distinction

which has recently been conferred by the Royal Society on
Dr. S. P. Thompson, the Council beg to offer to him, their
President, the expression of their cordial congratulations on
his election to its Fellowship, which they fully recognise as
constituting the due acknowledgment of the important
services which he has by continued research rendered to the
progress of science."

   Of Thompson's work for the Royal Society more will be
told later on. The Hon. Secretary, Mr. Arthur Schuster,

wrote in 1916 expressing admiration of his scientific re
                  LIFE IN LONDON                                               161

searches, and added the opinion, " His successful work has

never been sufficiently recognised by the Royal Society."

   This year (1891) was perhaps the busiest in Thompson's
busy life. After college courses were finished for the

session, he had two important lectures to prepare before

he could get away for his holiday, the Lecture to Working

Men at Cardiff during the meeting of the British Association

there, and an address to be given at Frankfort, where he

had been appointed Vice-President of the Electrical

Exhibition, and where an International Electrical Congress

was to be held. The following extracts from letters to his

wife written in July, when she had taken the children to

visit her sister in Aberdeenshire, show some of his interests

at that time :

                                                                      "July llth.
I" The lonely grass-widower finds his house strangely
quiet and empty.  am living a desperately quiet life here :
                 it seemed quieter
and"  yesterday   writes me that                 and      duller than ever.
      Herkomer                                    he      is much overworked,

and is going from Bushey this week. He will paint the
portrait in the autumn, at Bushey. The Italian Edition of
I Imy"
      little Electricity is out.        got a copy to-day.
      To-morrow evening           rmaemapcuhbgilnioseihnsign--g tmo--ywMpirat.hpeWrciuomtnssIhntufhlruasettnchteoe

arrange with him about

will give me respecting his

Ma"chTineells,thfeorlitwtlheicghirtlshetrheaits  a demand.     their  gardens  for
                                                 papa watered
Ithem this evening ; and that he has taken down the swing.
   am getting a lot of writing done."

                                                                      "July 15th.
   " Never a line yet from you to say how you fare : and

Ihow the little birdies stood the journey I All is going on

steadily and quietly, and am very busy.
"More proofs; manuscript of my Cardiff lecture pro
gressing, and a paper ready for the Frankfort Congress
growing into shape.

  "I had a pleasant couple of hours last evening with
IMr. Wimshurst amongst the machines. want him to work
out a     very simple sort of                              that every schoolboy
might     be able to make and                    machine  is lovely weather -- too

hot indeed."                                     use. It

      11
162 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

                                             " July 23rd.
I" Time wears on, and shall soon have to pack up my
Itraps, whether my work is done or not.      have got through
the bulk of all the work that necessitated actual residence
among my books : but there is a good deal of actual writing
I I Iyet to do, not to mention scissors-and-paste work. Some

of this must bring with me, fear. shall not be able to

Ilea"veYebseteforrdeaythewa2s9tah.busy day.  worked hard at home
Itill nearly 12. Then went to College, kept three appoint

ments, then went to New Cross. After that returned
          train to Earl's Court to  itseies--thaenddtyhneanm, ossnatacthitnhge
          Exhibition --a poor show
Iwest by

German
a hasty dinner at the Exhibition, went to a Committee
IMeeting at London University --and so home to bed.

Nell's letter came with yours while was out. Many thanks
Ito "heTrheanaduryaotuu.m lilies are out ;
                                             have one in the study,
perfuming it amazingly."
                                                                          " July 25th.

  I" The law court case comes up on Tuesday, and will be

disposed of that day. shall therefore, if all is well, go to
ISet"tle  next         and am writing Marie accordingly.
          shall  day,  have finished all my literary work  :  but
                 not

Ihave got on tremendously the last week. The garden is
splendid, roses magnificent.  had a feast of three ripe

strawberries last evening 1 [from Dorothea's little garden].
Love and kisses to my pets, one and all."

   The garden at Hampstead and the little greenhouse
were always a joy to Thompson, and he managed to spend
many odd minutes and hours among his beloved flowers and
plants. He was very fond of fuchsias and possessed many

varieties, crossing them himself, and producing new seed
lings. One summer he had fifty-two different varieties in
flower. He used to send cuttings to his friends. Twenty

years later, when Hampstead had become more urban, the
results in the garden were rather discouraging to the enthusi

astic gardener.

   About two years previously to the date of these letters,
Thompson had become acquainted with Hubert Her-
komer, K.A. (afterwards Sir Hubert von Herkomer), and
                    LIFE IN LONDON                                      163

found him an attractive personality.        Of Bavarian ancestry
                                            had emigrated to the
-- his father was a wood-carver who
United States -- Herkomer had a good many of the ways of

an American. He was then living in two small cottages

down at Bushey, where there was a large Art School, to which

he freely gave his services as teacher for many years. He

seems to have been attracted by Thompson also, and often

pressed him to go down to" Bushey. His enthusiasm as

a teacher, and his anxiety to enlarge the horizon of his

students, enlisted  toTthhoemmpsoonn"'sCoslyomurpaatnhdy,Piagnmdenhtes  "heflrpoemd
him by lecturing

the scientific point of view. He was also interested in the
new house, a veritable palace of Art, which Herkomer was

building for himself at Bushey. He advised Herkomer

over its lighting by electricity, and recommended to him

young men who would be willing and able to carry out his

ideas. Herkomer in return painted a very fine portrait of

Thompson, which he presented to him. It was in process

of being painted for several years, both men being so busy
that it was difficult to fit in the necessary sittings. Many

visits to Bushey were paid by Thompson and his wife, on

Saturday or even on Sunday afternoons. For the sake of

making a pilgrimage down to that simple yet artistic home,

he would occasionally break  "thhroomugeh"  his almost  invariable
rule of keeping Sunday as a                 day.

Previously another of his artist friends, Mr. J.Walter West,

who had a studio in Hampstead, had also painted a large

portrait of him in his robes as Doctor of Science of London

University. Unfortunately, from 1889 to 1892 Thompson

wore a beard, in which he is represented in this picture, but

which he had given up wearing before Herkomer's portrait

was begun.

In the spring of 1894 Thompson again gave a brilliant

Friday Evening Discourse at the Royal Institution on

"Transformations of Electric Currents," remarkable for its

ingenious experiments. That year the British Association

was held at Oxford, and his friend Professor Oliver Lodge

gave his paper which foreshadowed wireless telegraphy,

and succeeded in sending messages from one building to
164 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

another. Mrs. Thompson also attended the meeting, and
they stayed in some students' small rooms in Ship Street.
The week spent among the architectural grandeurs of old

Oxford was a great joy to them both. Thompson was tired

that summer, and read no papers at the meeting. After it

was over they went off to Switzerland, accompanied by his
sister Rachel and the two eldest children. They spent a
long time at Riffel Alp, which he found an excellent centre
for sketching. They drove homewards over the Furks

Pass through a deep fall of early snow.

   In 1895 Thompson's brother-in-law, Ellwood Brockbank,

came with his family to reside near London at Winchmore

Hill ; the only unmarried sister, Rachel, also left Settle at

the same time, and came to live with them. It was an

added joy for him to be able now to see his sisters more

frequently, and Saturday afternoons were sometimes spent

together. In July of that year Mrs. Thompson went to

Buxton with her mother, and the following extracts are
from letters to her :

  I"                                                      "July

the
      There  --wewrheerme aanlyl   inquiries  for         you on Friday night     at
      Swans                       the world   (the        scientific world) and  his

wife (especially his wife) were present.                  felt curiously
lame and out of place to be there alone. They had some
music and singing and Hilda recited. Rachel did not
                                  facial neuralgia.
go,"  she  was suffering   from   my Committee            meetings were
       On    Saturday,    after
Iover, went to Winchmore Hill, arriving there before four
Io'clock.    like the house ; it seems, but for the distance

from" Mtahreiestwaatisonlo, oakinvegryvedreysiwraeblll.e  spot.                 and
                                                           Irene was blooming,
said she did not want to come home. Marie seems very glad
to have her. We had tea in the garden, and the children

had a high old time making a Bedouin tent, and defending
Iit "agOaninsMt otnhdeayarmsehdalrlohbabveersa ! very busy day with meetings
of the College Committee, and at the University ; and in
the evening dinner at Miss Jones'. The statistics of the

IAnnual Report that have sent in show that, of 421 day
Istudents who have gained the certificate since became
Principal, no fewer than 393 have stuck to the professions
                       LIFE IN LONDON                                             165

for which the College prepared them. This is a very sur

Iprising result."                                                            "July 18th.
   "  --haanveintjuersetstcionmg e   in from the     conversazione
                                                  .   . No further           at Toynbee
  ,,                                gathering. .                           news, except
                                            is i<»
Hall
                                                                        :
that Mr. Chas. Brown of Baden coming to see me to-morrow
at Finsbury. In the evening the concert at the School."

" Saturday was Dorothea's birthday and what with
her watch and chain, her new dolly, her letter from her

mamma, her innumerable small presents from sisters and
cousins and aunts, she had enough to think about. Yester

day Mr. Brown of Baden came to lunch and stayed with
me the whole afternoon, much to my delight.
                                                                           got no
end of useful tips in completing the revision of Dynamo.                   I
He carried off with him a copy of the Polyphase book,
                                                                                    is
which now out."
I                                                                          " July 22nd.
       is

                   it
" am now getting rapidly toward the end of the revision
of Dynamo, but takes a vast lot of work. Walker an
admirable helper in all this.
                                          :I  have had another busy day
of College and University business, but this evening have
                                                     But there was no one
been drawing   for  th"e            Dynamo  book.                   " July 24th.
by to read to
               me
                   I!
" Walker and are working like Trojans to get the rest

of the  MS.  of Dynamo licked into shape within the next ten
days.
        It is  no easy business and there            is                    terrible lot of
                                                        is a
it. However, three-quarters of the book revised, and
more than half in the printers' hands. So the last
                    is

qua"rterwewnotn'ttotakWeilfsroedlonBg.all's bachelor At Home last'
                                                                           ;
I
                                                                               '
night. There was some good music, many artists and a

lot of pretty things in his studio."

   Thompson's great admiration for the work of Faradayit
led him, during the years when he was lecturing at the
Royal Institution himself, to make constant use of the
records and notes of his work, which are among the treasures

of the Institution. He studied the apparatus made
by him, and would often show pieces of when lecturing.
His frequent references in public to the work of this great
166 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

genius showed his enthusiasm for the man. Faraday's

friendship for his great-uncles the Phillips, and hearing of

him from his cousin, Lady Wilson, daughter of Richard

Phillips, added a personal link to the already attractive

character. The following letter to Sir William Crookes,

then Hon. Secretary of the Royal Institution, is of interest :

I" DE"ARDuSrIiRngWsIoLmLeIAMre,cent lectures to my classes,        have

been going over Faraday's fundamental work as narrated
in the first and second series of his Experimental Researches
Iin the discovery of magneto-electric actions. In the course
of this a suggestion   occurred to me that think                   worthy of
putting before you.                                                of interest
if one were to try in   It is this, that it might be                afternoon

                       a short series--say three --of
lectures at the R. I. to reconstruct, as it were, that cele

brated research, and show the experiments as nearly as
possible as Faraday showed them,; making all the experi
                                                                   with his own
ments as he  made them  s; eaennd--wahnedrevsheor wpno--ssitbhlee   experiments
apparatus.     One has
so often with modern appliances that to many it is difficult
to realise the conditions under which Faraday was working.
IHow does this suggestion strike you ? There is another thing
  have been thinking over. These researches of 1831 are so
absolutely vital in the history of Science that every detail
in their making is of intense interest. Now, though the
account in the Experimental Researches is partly narrative
and fairly detailed, it is not in the same order as the experi

Iments as recorded in Faraday's own laboratory notes.
think that Faraday's own notes as they stand would be
valuable to the world.                          the R.             bIo.owk o?u"ld
allow me to transcribe   Do  you think   that   small
                        and  print them
                                          as a

     The first of these suggestions was welcomed by the
 Managers of the Royal Institution, and the lectures were
 given, but the second was never carried out.

    In 1894 Sir Henry Roscoe was editing a- series of short

  biographies of scientific men of the nineteenth century,
 and he immediately thought of Thompson, and wrote to him
' as follows :

     " The series is to be written in a scientific spirit, but
 made readable. Thorpe is doing Davy, Percy Frankland,
          BIOGRAPHY OF FARADAY        167

IPasteur, etc.  write to ask whether you will write Faraday
Iand his Work 1 It is a tempting subject, and feel sure that
you would do it justice. Each volume is to be about
200 pages of small pica type, and will therefore not be
Ilengthy. Indeed, the difficulty will be that of compression.
"Cassell's pay the authors each £80.  can send you a
dummy volume if you wish to see the size of the proposed

series."

   Thompson did feel much tempted to write about a man
whose character he so greatly admired, and whose work had
been such an inspiration to him, so in spite of his many
engagements, he undertook to add one more task to those

he had before him. Three admirable biographies were

already in existence, but were all expensive books, and
were all out of print ; so, as Thompson wrote in his preface

to his volume :

   " There seems room for another account of the life and

labours of the man whose influence upon the century in
which he lived was so great. For forty years he was a living
and inspiring voice in the Royal Institution, beyond all
question the greatest scientific expositor of his time.
Throughout almost the whole of that time his original
researches in physics, and chiefly in electricity, were
extending the boundaries of knowledge and laying the
foundations, not only for the great developments of electrical
engineering of the last twenty years, but for those still
greater developments in the theories of electricity, magnet
ism, and light, which are every year being extended and
made fruitful."

   Thompson was allowed to print extracts from some of

Faraday's original notes, and also obtained access to some
of his private letters and papers, which were in the possession
of the Barnard family, nephew and nieces of Faraday. He
was a very long time in getting the book completed, for as
usual he took infinite pains with the details of the biography,
and that entailed research and correspondence with the
few old friends of Faraday who still survived. Sir William
Crookes lent him some excellent portraits, and also gave him
others. Thompson was not quite satisfied with any portrait
or photograph of his hero, for to him Faraday was a hero ;
168 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

so after long comparison and study of all available likenesses,

he drew one for himself, etched it on copper, and it was

used as the frontispiece of the book which appeared in the
autumn of 1898, after many reproaches from editor and
publisher for its long delay. On October 17th, 1898, he

received the following letter from Sir Henry Boscoe :

   I I"MY"
           DBAR SlLVANTTS,     your  iniquities  !  for   have just
              forgive you all

                   of your Faraday, which is excellent.
                   a good finish to the series, and am

                     hope that the portrait has come out
Irea"dItevweriyllword                                           wmeullc. h"
           form
Iobliged to you.

   From his friend Mr. Conrad Cooke:

  I" Accept my warmest thanks for your most delightful

gift, which value greatly for several special reasons. First
as a very welcome present, another proof of your kindly
feeling towards me, next as one more example of your
wonderful industry and research, coupled with both literary
and artistic talent, for the portrait by you (evidently
painted in oils) is an artistic rendering and a most excellent

Iportrait of the dear great man as so well remember him ;

Iand lastly, and cannot say the least, your book is a treat
Iment of the life of my very dear old friend, whom loved
with all the freshness and reverence of a boy's heart, such as

.has not been done before. Tyndall's book should have had

the title Faraday's life of Tyndall, and neither Bence Jones
nor Dr. Gladstone have come more than on the border of

the field you cover. Oh, how you would have appreciated
                                           of that dear,
the  beauty of mind, the      lov"eliness                 good  man,
and  his exquisite manners       t

   Professor David Hughes wrote :

   I" have never seen so complete and interesting an
           of our  great Master that all electricians worship.
account    matter  of the greatest surprise to me that you are

It is the
Ienabled to find time to write such a work, knowing as
Ido that every moment of your time is so fully occupied.
  am full of admiration of your talent and energy."

"  Thompson"    had prefixed    to his volume some verses on
               of Faraday,"    by Mr. Cosmo Monkhouse, whom
   A Portrait
               BIOGRAPHY OF FARADAY                                           169

he knew, and whose poems he much admired.                     Mr. Monk-
house wrote to him :

  I" was pleased at the honour you did my verses. It is

no little pleasure for a poet to find that what he has done
more than five and twenty years ago still ' lives ' in the
estimation of men like you."

Sir Joseph Swan, who had known Faraday, wrote :

   " Faraday is to me the ideal of a               gIretawt iallnadlwgaoyosd   man ;
truly he was in his simplicity sublime.                                       be one

of my most precious memories to have conversed with him
in his home. You have done a good work most admirably
in giving to the world this further account of the life of

Faraday."

Lady Wilson, a cousin of Thompson, wrote :

I I" shall read the book with great interest, though fear
Inot much understanding of the scientific parts.              so well

recollect Dr. Faraday and being nursed by him ; he was

always so devoted to children."

Afterwards Lady Wilson gave to Thompson all the letters

which had been written to her father, Richard Phillips, by

Faraday. They were greatly treasured by Thompson among

the collection of autographs which had come to him from

his father and grandfather. Thompson received also many

appreciatory   l:ett"erVsoufrsomavehzis   foreign   friends,  M. Mascart of
Paris writing                            fait un   acte de    veritable pi4te

ecientifique en publiant ce beau livre du Faraday." Dr.

Koenig also sent a long letter of appreciation.

The author was at once approached by a German pub

lisher for permission to publish a translation. Thompson

gave his consent ; the author of the translation, Herr Dr. H.

Danneel, made an admirable translation by the help of his

wife, an Englishwoman. On its completion they wrote to

Thompson saying how much they had enjoyed translating

the Life of this most noble and good man, and that through

out their work they had felt that the writer of the book

they were translating was himself a man of a noble spirit.
170 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

From Mr. Elihu Thompson, of Massachusetts, he had also

appreciatory criticism :

I I" Since first read Faraday's researches have been a
warm admirer of his genius. You have succeeded in bring

ing the man himself before us, and have given us a better
Iinsight into his character and life than we have hitherto
been able to obtain.      am glad that you have testified in
such a way to Faraday's worth, for we all know that you are
a master in book-making. Our young men must certainly

receive inspiration from the work."

Sir William Crookes sent to Thompson a fine old engraved

portrait of Faraday, with the accompanying note :

"My

    I"
DEAR SILVANUS,               high  an admiration  for Faraday,
Because have so
I gladly give the enclosed picture to you, who have given
to the world the best literary portrait of him as a man and

a philosopher."

Some years later Sir William again presented a portrait

of Faraday, a very fine daguerreotype, to Thompson, who

thus expressed his thanks :

" DE"ARDaSyIlRighWt ILoLnIAlyM,adds to the beauty of the Brande-
IFaraday daguerreotype which you so kindly and un
expectedly presented to me last night.           fear my thanks

Iseemed feeble : but you fairly took my breath away.
   presume the date was somewhere about 1848, or in any

case anterior to 1850." Yours "mSoIsLtVAgNrUaStefuPl.ly,THOMPSON."

In 1891 Thompson was invited to lecture at Berlin in the

Urania Theatre, an institution    similar   in   som" eFarreasdpaeyctsantdo
our Royal Institution. His      subject
                                           was,

the English School of Electricians," and the lecture- was

given in German before a large and enthusiastic audience.

He had to go to Berlin early in January, and, as the

lecture was illustrated with experiments, had to spend a

few days there in preparation for it. The cold was intense.

He wrote to his wife :
          BIOGRAPHY OF FARADAY                                                                                          171

" It is a new experience to find one's breath forming icicles
that hang down from one's moustache. But one feels the

Icold far less than- one feels the chilly damp cold in England.
  have been busy all day, in a horribly overheated labora
Itory, getting my experiments ready. There is very little

more to do, so am well up to time."

On January 9th, the day of the lecture, he wrote :

I" It is now five o'clock, and have just returned from an
hou"r'As llqmuiyckprweaplakraitnionthse
                                         Thiergarten.   and  every  experi
                                         were complete
ment rehearsed before half-past one. My lecture is at eight

o'clock. All the experiments go well, particularly the

Ikinematograph diagrams that took so much pains to
Idraw. After the lecture am to go to supper with Professor

Neesen."                                                     " January IQth.

   " All went off well last night. The papers will probably

I Isay that lectured for two hours, as it was 10 o'clock when
finished. But they begin at ten minutes past eight, and
they give a pause of ten minutes in the middle, so that the
audience can go out into the foyer to drink a glass of beer !

Ho"wHathpopriolyugahllly   German !        behaved themselves well :
                          the experiments

and the   kinematographic demonstrations                fawceerse--athepeKrafepcpt
success.  There were a number of familiar
Ifamily, Von Hefner, Alteneck, etc., etc. My voice held

out well, found it quite easy to read, and not hard to speak

ltahde"iePsdreosmfcerasipsdoteirveaNepereasgertunlaahrbaodustcahwwthdhreomleeerxeppi aerritamyroetunontsd.memete.me.It  The
                                                                                                                        was

quite comic. Of men there were Lummer, Rubens, Prings-

heim, Thiesen, Biedermann, Spiez, and Du Bois-^Ach

Ider schone ! Professor Neesen proposed a toast in my

honour about midnight. replied bilingually and briefly."

                                                                  "January llih.

I" had a very pleasant time yesterday --visiting the
IReichsanstalt, and spending the time mainly with Lummer
and Pringsheim.           walked back to Berlin, had a nap and
some tea, and then went back by train to Charlottenburg
to dinner with the Kohlrausch family. Professor Kohl-

rausch desired to be remembered to you and Sylvia. We
172 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

had a party of about ten, all ' physikers ' except one, his
Ison.  think about half the time they were discussing
Iwith me points raised by my lecture.
                                                                    have seen three

reports in German papers. One says that Professor
Thompson, who is only of medium height, does not look at
Iall like an Englishman. But it does not say at all what he

is like ! gather that the term of highest praise about any
Idescriptive lecture is that it is plastisch. That adjective is

at least once awarded me. This evening dine with the
"IKapps.
         came across an old Finsbury student here. He is
making contracts for train-lighting with the German railway
folk. He speaks with admiration (mingled with some envy)
of the intelligent business capacity of the people here, all
alive and enterprising."

To leave the subject of Thompson's life in London

without reference to his connection with the University of

London would be to misrepresent his civic spirit, for in his

opinion no city was complete without its university.

  It is impossible to give an adequate idea of the amount

of work he did, during some twenty years, without devoting

a whole chapter to the history of the movements and the

traditions, personal and impersonal, which, working at cross

purposes, so protracted the reform of the University.

When Thompson moved to London early in 1885 he

fCoounnvdocathtieonle(tahdein"g  lowgreardu"aHteosuseamfoorngthset   the members     of
                                                                    government of  the

University), intent upon the adoption of some scheme

comparable to one which had just been projected by an

association for the Promotion of a Teaching University for

London. He at once associated himself with the movement,

then reaching a critical stage, and before he had been six

months in London he ventured to criticise the proposed

scheme of reform in a letter to The Times the day before the

decisive vote was to be taken in Convocation. He was

most anxious that the University should cease to be chiefly

and almost solely an examining body, content to accept

candidates with no college record, and that it should become

an association of teaching bodies ; but he thought the scheme
suggested would fail in that purpose, and that it was more-
UNIVERSITY REFORM  173

over retrogressive in augmenting the powers of the Crown-
nominated Senate at the expense of the graduate body,

Convocation. At the meeting of Convocation Thompson
spoke against the policy, which was eventually rejected. A

day or two later he received the following in a letter from
one of the members of the disappointed group of leaders :

   "The issue of Tuesday's discussion did not altogether

surprise me, but what did surprise and puzzle and perhaps
to some extent annoy several of us, was that no definite
views were expressed as to what ought to be done, but the

Iposition and tone was (speaking generally) mere opposition

to doing anything. In your speech , however, thought we

were probably meeting a friend in the guise of an antagonist,
and that, although you objected strongly to some points in
the scheme, you were disposed to accept some of its main
provisions. My object in writing is to ask whether thia
opinion of mine is a right one, or whether your opposition

Ito the movement is radical and unalterable. In the former

case cannot but think that we might profitably exchange
ideas on the subject, and you would perhaps find that we had
more in common in our views than you expect."

   Another group of reformers, including this writer and
Thompson, set to work to draft a different scheme, which,
though accepted by Convocation, was rejected by the Senate,
which in turn projected a scheme unacceptable to the lower

House. These differences of opinion and protracted debates

extended over some years. Meanwhile the University
Colleges and the Colleges of Surgeons and Physicians were
petitioning the Queen for power to grant their own degrees
as separate institutions, leaving the examining body un
disturbed in its old course. Thompson was foremost in
opposition to such schemes, and wrote letters to The Times,
pointing out how disastrous they would be to the prestige
of the University. Parliament refused to grant the peti
tions, and, to escape the deadlock, a Royal Commission was
appointed. When the reports of this body were presented
in 1889 to the Senate, Thompson was one of the nine mem
bers of Convocation elected to be present at the delibera
tions of the upper House, and was frequently in attendance.
The minority report of the Commission favoured the estab
174 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

lishment of a second, a teaching University of London, and
for many years a strong party supported that course, and
long and hot was the battle that ensued, Thompson leading
in the arguments in favour of reform of the existing body.
Looking back some years later, he drafted the following
historical statement about the efforts of that period :

" It will be remembered that after the failure in 1892 of
the Senate and Convocation to agree upon a scheme of recon-

stitution by way of a new Charter, application was made
to the Privy Council by persons representing chiefly
University College and King's College, for a separate
Charter for a Teaching University in London, the distinctive
feature of which was that it was to be exclusively metro
politan and collegiate, as it entirely excluded non-collegiate
students. To this proposed University so restricted, the
name first assigned was that of the ' Albert ' University ;
but, while the petition for its creation was still under the
consideration of the Privy Council, the name of ' Gresham
University ' was substituted, with the concurrence of the
Trustees of Gresham College, who had in the meantime

agr"eeOdwitnog  assist the proposed teaching    University.  only  on
                 to the great opposition which   arose not

the part of both Senate and Convocation, but also on the
part of many influential persons interested in education all
over the country, Parliament refused its sanction to the
granting of the charter to the proposed Gresham University,
and the scheme for establishing a second university in

Lon" dHoand  fell   through.  Teaching  University  been  thus estab
              a    separate
lished, it would have been a crushing disaster to the Uni
versity of London, since it would soon have absorbed all
the intellectual life and the material resources of higher
education in London. Its establishment would leave the
present University doomed to be for ever a mere Govern
ment Board of Examinations, like the Civil Service Com
mission, under whose control it would probably have

drifted."

  At one time, when the party feeling was very acute, and

personalities were not kept in check by the hotheads,

Thompson drafted "A letter to a Graduate" with the

following personal introduction :
                 UNIVERSITY EEFORM                   175

-" You tell me you have heard it said that my efforts to
IhboefylpwthhefiocchrwircaurmdhasvttahenisctehgsereathhtoanetodutuhrceattoFioinnbasebl uPmrryionvcTeiepmcaehlnn--ticiaasrletCodoliblceetgaeoten--de
Iof the constituent colleges ; and that want to get easy
degrees for my students. Pray tell any of your friends,
who have been told this, what the facts are. No one has

ever proposed that the Technical College should become a
constituent college. If any one were to propose
                                            it   as its
                                                 it it,
                                                    I,

                                                                  is
educational head, should oppose the suggestion to the
uttermost. The Technical College a technical, not an
                              ;

                                   is
academic, institution. Its students do not work for any

degrees or outside examinations the training gives
professional rather than scholastic. To make a University
College would be entirely to change the character of its
training, and divert from its present useful though less
                 I

                      it

                       I
ambitious work.  have thrown my energies into the

present struggle, because want to see my own University
grow great, and exercise all the functions and powers of a
great University and strive the more earnestly, because
                 ;

                      I

of the extraordinary courses which have been taken to
cloud the issue, and to raise prejudices and misconceptions

concerning the great scheme of reconstruction which  is

now so near being realised."

it When was found that agreement could not be reached
within the University a second Royal Commission was

appointed, and reported after many months. The report
was at once seized upon by the various parties, but the

details of the struggle cannot be entered upon here. It

continued for two years before both those who supported

and those who opposed the scheme of the Royal Com
mission and the proposed Bill to put in force appointed
separate deputations to wait upon the Prime Minister,
Lord Rosebery. Huxley led the supporters, and of those

who spoke Thompson held out most hope of reconciliation.
Rosebery Government fell before he accomplished anything
in the matter, and the battle had to be fought out again
with the Duke of Devonshire when Lord Salisbury's party
took office. The London newspapers at that time paid no

little attention to the university question, The Times pub

lished several long articles, and leaders devoted to the
's

                                        it
176 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

progress of affairs, in which Thompson's position among

the reformers is clearly recognised.
   Early in January 1896 Thompson wrote to his wife :

  I" am very busy writing a paper   foIrtthweasSotociehtyaveof   Arts

on the London University question.                              come
Ioff in February : but, with the questions coining on in

Convocation, got Wood to put it earlier, and had to take
Jan. 15      at rather short notice. Lord Reay will take

the chair."

   Two days later :
   " London University affairs still keep me very busy ; the

Iother side have put out a manifesto in The Times of to-day.
   probably shall not go to meeting to-morrow [Sunday] ;
but take a walk with Sylvia."

Three days later :

II" am very well and hearty. Fagged ? Not a bit.
Iam in splendid fettle. My Society of Arts paper was

finished yesterday, and am quite at ease. The University
question continues quite at fever heat, with letters in The
ITimes every day. There has been a run on the Society of
Arts for tickets for my paper to-morrow night.  think

the facts will open the eyes of a few people."

   The facts consisted of sheets of statistics about Universi
ties all over the world, with pertinent comments upon com
parative expenditure and revenues, professoriates and
students, libraries, laboratories, etc. The following extract
may perhaps be considered the definition of his title, " The
Making of a Great University."

  " It is, therefore, from the point of view of the scholar,

whether he be nominally student or nominally teacher, that
the claims of a university to be considered great must be
decided. Does it bring him into an atmosphere of mental
activity and progress ? Does it afford contact with living
thought ? Does it give the stimulus of intellectual struggle
so essential for improvement of knowledge ? Does it
furnish the means and appliances of learning ? Does it
provide the scholar with libraries, and give him access to
                      UNIVERSITY REFORM                                                  177

the mental furniture of the past and of the present ? Does
it
    offer to    the investigator the           means of pursuing                research ?
If  it does,    then it is fulfilling         its functions as a               university.

The test of greatness is to be found in the degree to which
it thus ministers to the intellectual progress of the age."

" Two years later it appeared that the battle was won.
 On August 1st, 1898, Sir Thistleton Dyer wrote :

    I" MY D"ETAhBouSglLhVAsNoUmSewThHaOt MlPaStOeNi,n the day,                 must write
a few words of congratulation on the London University
IBil"l
      passing   the   House of Commons.                           of .us  have  worked
     What       feel  is that, though many

pretty hard at times in this business, it is to your indefatig
able energy and enthusiasm that we owe having educated
op"iniWonheinn
                Convocation.  received        the                 Royal   Assent,  don't

                the Bill has
ydoinunethr i?nk" we might celebrate the event by a modest little

   When about ten years later, in 1907, and when no longer
a member of the Senate of the University, Thompson wrote
to Oliver Lodge his recollections of the struggles of those

earlier days :

    " You ask about the Graduates' Union. It is a body which
was started ten years ago, or so, amongst the active members

of Convocation, to promote the reconstruction, at the time
when our then M.P., Lord Avebury, was hesitating whether
to support      orItopwpaosseforlelofowremd,                              Bill had been
introduced.                                   and before the
                                              by the creation             of an opposi

tion body, the Graduates' Association, under Collins, Napier,
etc., to oppose        reconstruction. This                       l"attetearchberosd,"y
always shown a   the   of vindictive hatred of                                           has
                 sort                                                                    and

has opposed the election of any teacher on the Senate.                                    It

got  t"heCoerarersopfotnhdeenpcreoviCnocllieagl eg.r"aduAatneds,   and of the  proteges of
the                                                                            body which
                                                                  it was this
    a Senatorial Election put in
at  opposition to Lord Lister.                Iatnhoabsodaybsnoalumteedcontrol(Mov.Der)
in

the graduates in the Arts Faculty, owing to the immense
preponderence of illiterate B.A.'s who have come in through
the cram-shop ; and it further has much weight in the
Laws Faculty, which is very small. Its shining lights are

     12
178 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

[Lord] Moulton and [Sir Wm.] Collins. It tries to run all

university matters by caucus ; selects the names of the
graduates to be run to represent Convocation in senatorial
elections ; and sends a very third-rate class of men (except
Moulton). Not only does it thus govern (save in Science
Faculty) the election of the convocation members of the
Senate, but it even directs these members how to vote in
the Senate. This degradation of university politics and
their persistent attitude of opposition to the internal side
of the University, by the graduates of the ' Association,'
has become unendurable. The graduates' ' Union,' on the
other hand, when the reconstruction took place, kept quiet.

It wished things to have a fair trial. It never attempted

to run candidates to represent the internal side ; it wished
        sides to have a fair chance. . . .
Ibo"th   detest all party lines, whether in  public  politics           or
Iuniversity matters.
                      refused to be nominated for the

I ISenate eighteen months ago by either party as a party.
  should do so again if were asked to stand on such a basis.
IBut apparently those who feel the pinch of the obstruction

more than do agree that the battle must be organised
more on party lines. That is the meaning of the present

circular."

In October 1900 Thompson was elected by Convocation

to   the Senate of the University. He      had    b"eeUnniionnvit"edto  by
the   secretary of the science committee  of the
                                                                        be

one of their six nominees, the others being Sir Michael Foster,

Prof. Carey Foster, Prof. Vines, Sir Henry Roscoe, and Mrs.
Bryant. He was told, "We can't guarantee election, aa

Moulton's crowd also has a list, but a less eligible list than

our 5, and it was impossible to compromise with them."

Outside the University also he was much occupied.

Earlier that same year he became a member of the Council

of the London Society for the Extension of University

Teaching,   of which Lord Avebury   was      "PrYeosuidrenptr.eseTnhcee
secretary,  Dr. Kimmins, wrote to  him,

on the Council just now will be of immense value, as we are

coming into close connection with the new Teaching

University."

The following year Professor Ramsay wrote asking him

to join in a movement to investigate the work of the London
UNIVERSITY REFORM                                           179

Polytechnics and stimulate the real work, which might be

regarded as bearing on industries, and to discourage com

petition with University Colleges.

The Senate was busy with details of the reorganisation

of the University. The registrar had gone, the Principal

Officer had not yet been appointed in May 1901 when

Thompson wrote the following letter :
I I" DEA" RInVvICieEw-CHoAfNtChEeLLfOeRw
                        :               which you  dropped  at

                        words

our chance meeting to-day, think ought frankly to let
you know that if it were to be understood that the University
is in fact contemplating the step of appointing a Principal
Officer, and if that post is to be distinctly an academic one,

I should inform my friends that, in the event of the post being
I Ioffered to me, should take it. know it cannot be a heavily
I Isalaried post. If were chosen for it, should resign, not
only my Professorship here, and the Principalship of the
College, but also sundry examinerships, and the whole of
my professorial consulting work. But whoever undertakes
I Ithe duty must have no other outside interests or calls upon
his professional time.  am not yet fifty.          have my
limitations and my failings -- the consciousness of them is
only too well known to me. But you know them too, and

have at any rate the advantage of knowing whether those

Ilimitations and defects put me out of the running.
       shall be to-morrow at Committee Room 15 (Derby and

INotts. Electric Power Bill) at the House of Commons. If

you are going to Committee Room 8 should like to meet
you."

   The appointment was a government one ; and Thompson
was not a persona grata at that time, possibly on account
of his opinions on the Boer War.

   One Monday in November 1900, several London news
papers contained a paragraph somewhat similar to the
following extract from The Times, presumably communi
cated by a visitor at the ordinary morning meeting in the
Meeting House in St. Martin's Lane.

   " Speaking at the Westminster Friends' meeting yester
day morning, Professor Silvanus Thompson said this
country had reached a period in its national life when,
reluctant as many people were to pass judgment on others,
180 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

yet, if they would live up to the Christianity they professed,
it was incumbent upon them to do so. He and others had
waited patiently and prayerfully for fifteen months for the
tide of passion excited by the war in South Africa to recede.

But, after a lapse of fifteen months, the country was face

to face with horrors of the most appalling kind. Take one
simple fact. A country which was nourishing fifteen months
ago was now in a state of devastation, its farms in ruins,
its women and children turned out on the veldt, enclosed in

camps, and surrounded by soldiers with the bayonet in
their hands. Yet from the official Christianity of this
country --he would say nothing of the unofficial Christianity
--no voice was raised in protest. He did not know of any
Bishop, or of any archdeacon, or of any dean in the Church

of England who had said one word against the inhumanities

which were being perpetrated. It was no answer to say
that the Boers declared war. Admit that in form they did,

yet he remembered well the days and weeks preceding the
outbreak of war when things were said and acts performed
showing too surely that this country was drifting into war.
And for the first time he felt it a degradation to be an English
man ; the responsibility for it all must go to somebody's
account. In keeping silence he and others might be regarded
as accomplices. That was why, loth as he was to pass a
                           felt compelled to raise his
judgment on others,   he  ' man's inhumanity to man.'                v"oice
against this example  of

A good many of Thompson's friends fully expected his

appointment to the position, but, though his name was

among four finally considered, the choice fell upon another,
Professor Arthur Riicker, M.P.

Thompson took an active interest in the Library of the

University, and served upon its committee. He was out of

sympathy with the growing imperialism of the day, which

reflected itself in the deliberations of the Senate, with whose

schemes he found himself frequently in disagreement, and

in a small minority. He was not re-elected when his term

of office came to an end. The same spirit prevailed and

reflected itself in the proposal a few years later to found at

South Kensington, side by side with the University, a

T"eNcehwnicCahl aCrololltetgeenbouf rAgp."plieTdoSqcuieonteceTfhoer  the whole Empire, a

                                                                     Times of July 1905 ;
        UNIVERSITY REFORM                                 181

  " It cannot be doubted that the Imperial aspect of the

scheme and the provision in the metropolis of an Imperial
College of Applied Science in which will be found unrivalled
resources for study, instruction, and research must be of
the greatest assistance in the industrial competition with
other countries, which continuously increases in severity
and demands the utilisation of all possible aids to success
if we are to maintain our position."

This scheme was the uppermost interest in 1907 when

Thompson was again nominated to represent the science

graduates in Convocation on the Senate of the University.

Sir W. T. Thistleton Dyer wrote :

I" must congratulate you on your election into the

IAth"enaeduumly. signed and dispatched your nomination paper

[London University]. Judging from what you say in your
address, the people who are now manipulating the University

Imu"st  be insane.      with  you,  and  hope  sincerely  that you
        entirely agree
                     and able to put on the drag.
Iwil"lbe successful  grave doubts about the new        constitution.
        always had
INow that Universities are scattered all over the country
very much doubt whether       an   external side   is  craelal ltlhyedetusnirea.b' le"
at all. Anyhow, it should     not   be allowed '  to

   Thompson was not elected. He was in Paris with the
party representative of London University which went
over on a visit to the University of Paris in May 1907, and
wrote to his friend T. Bailey Saunders a letter showing how
disappointed he was in his University on that occasion ; he
felt, on perceiving the excellence of the French manner of

receiving them, how sadly London lacked academic dis
tinction :

  "It is a gorgeous farce, the Vice-Recteur is devoting

himself to us nobly. . . . He sent a note to Riicker that
they wanted the distinguished members of the academic
side of the Faculties of the University -- to meet their col
leagues in Paris. One of the Frenchmen asked me to-day
how it was that the University had sent so many dis

Itinguished men of science, and so few men of distinction on

the literary side ! What could reply ? . . .
182 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

  I" You

from the
            can easily imagine           how much amusement               derive
            events of the visit.                                       to make
                                          It is quite impossible
my friends understand how it is that my chair is not a chair
Iin the University, or that my only reason for being of the
par"tyByis  that   was once ' on the Senate ' of the University.
            the   way, you saw the result of the senatorial

Ielections. The caucus carried every seat except Sir Thomas

Barlow's. Mrs. Bryant was chucked out ; was a long
way below her, and Dr. A                 , F.R.S., bottom of the
list. . . . There was an absolute campaign of lies. It is
beyond measure pitiable to see things drifting."

   His amusement was distinctly bitter.
   Another time he wrote of the way things were going :

   " Our good friend Riicker scouts the danger. He is

developing a full-blown bureaucracy, with an army of clerks
at his back. There are troubles ahead."

   When the university policy drifted into " recognising "

teachers in Institutions outside its borders, Thompson was

in 1913 given the title of Professor of Applied Physics in the
                  L"onUdnoinve. rsiItny
University of                            tLheicsturceaspaicnityPhyhesicdse"livaetreUd nia
course of three
versity College in the winter of 1914, on " Studies in Historic

Magnetism."

After his rejection in 1907 he had very little indeed to do

with the    U"niivnetresrintya,l  having lost   heart  w"itwhheitesls  state of
perpetual                         dissension,"    and                    within

wheels," as described to him by Professor Meldola, an

onlooker. For some years the Kelvin Biography absorbed

all the time and energy to spare from his college and pro

fessional engagements ; but his interest remained alive. A
letter came to him in April 1916 from Dr. William Garnett,

as chairman of an Education Reform Council of the Teachers'

Guild, for the improvement of Education after the war,

inviting him to undertake the chairmanship of the sub

committee dealing with University and Higher Technical

work in relation to Industry and Commerce.
   To those who knew him in this field it seems that to the

end Thompson counted as an educational reformer.
                       CHAPTER IX

                 RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION

THE presidential address of Sir William Crookea to the
Institution of Electrical Engineers in 1891 entitled, "Elec
tricity in Transitu from Plenium to Vacuum," gave great
impetus to all those physicists who were engaged at that
time in research work on the problems of the relationship of
Electricity and Light both in this country and abroad.

   For more than twenty years this great chemist had been
engaged in researches on radiant matter. He had, among

various other inventions, devised a glass tube of special

form, that, by means of an improved air-pump, it could be
exhausted to such a high degree that, when an electric
current was passed through it, it glowed with a pale apple-
green light which possessed several properties up till that
time unknown. In his address of 1891, which was illus
trated by most novel experiments, Crookes gave freely to
the world the results of many years' research. He showed
how this mysterious light, emanating from the Kathode or
negative pole in his tubes, travelled in straight lines, could
cast shadows on the tube wall, and could excite brilliant
fluorescence and phosphorescence in crystals and minerals
on which it fell.

   A ray was capable of heating an object when directed

upon it. When placed under the influence of a magnet
the ray could be deflected from its path. Crookes described
how his tubes were made, and how they could be exhausted,
and thus provided means by which these extraordinary
phenomena might be studied by other younger men. By
Crookes and the English physicists the phenomenon was
regarded as an electrical one, by the German physicists

                                                                      183
184 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Wiedemann, Hertz, and others it was regarded as more

akin to light.

For some years previously to this Thompson had been

at work upon the relation between electricity and light, he

had in 1890 made an arrangement to write a book on the

subject. It was planned out, and some parts of chapters

written, but was never finished.

Ever since 1876, when he visited Dr..Geissler at Bonn

(p. 48) and acquired some of his remarkable vacuum-tubes,
he had been experimenting upon, and studying the pheno

mena  wexahs ibointed"  by them, and a  chapter of his projected
book                    The Phenomena   of Vacuum-tubes." The

Crookes' tubes were a great advance on any former vacuum-

tube, and Thompson now began to turn his attention to the

subject of phosphorescence, and fluorescence, which may be

grouped under the name of luminescence, that is, the pro

perty of shining with visible light without being heated.

Other workers in the same field in Germany were Wiede

mann, Hertz, Lenard, Rontgen ; in France, M. Perrin,
Henri Becquerel ; in Italy, Professors Roiti, Cardani, and
Villari.

On November 8th, 1895, Professor Rontgen of Wurzburg,

while experimenting with a Crookes' tube, on directing the

Kathode-ray on to a piece of cardboard painted with a

fluorescent material, discovered that a ray could pass through

blackened cardboard, and could cast a shadow on the

luminescent cardboard. At once he recognised that this

was something new, and he called the light the X-ray. He

soon found that the rays could penetrate wood, cloth, even

flesh, but that metals or bone were practically opaque. By

placing his hand in front of the tube the shadow of the

bones was clearly seen on the phosphorescent screen. This

last was the most important discovery.

Next, Rontgen found that they could produce photo

graphic action.

  In January 1896 this discovery was reported in the

Lancet. The account of it appeared a few days later in the

daily press, and caused a tremendous sensation.

Thompson, who had been working on the very lines on
RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 185

which Rontgen had made his discovery, at once grasped
the facts of the experiments, and on the same evening of the
day on which the account of the discovery was given to the
world, he succeeded in showing at his laboratory in Finsbury
the action of the X-rays in penetrating substances and
casting shadows of bones, and also took photographs.
Writing to his friend Dr. Kennelly of Harvard, Thompson
confesses how much he was impressed by the possibilities
opened out for research by this new discovery :

  I" There has been such a dearth of novelties in the electrical

way as never remember to have occurred before. All the

I(inventive) world seems to have gone off on two crazes --

bicycles and the X-rays. With the latter have myself
been badly bitten ; and have been very hard at work upon
these most perplexing and contradictory phenomena."

During the month of February Thompson and his

assistant, Mr. Miles Walker, were busily engaged in various

experiments, using fluorescent substances in contact with

the photographic film to hasten chemical action when

stimulated by the X-rays. The materials tried were finely

powdered fluor-spar, sulphide of zinc, fluoride of uranium,

and sundry platino-cyanides. While at work Thompson

came upon an unexpected effect. He found, on developing
a photographic plate, that where uranium nitrate or uranium

ammonium fluoride had been used, a distinct action had

taken place through a sheet of aluminium which is im

pervious to X-rays. He immediately wrote to Sir George
Stokes, then President of the Royal Society, on February
26th telling him of this discovery, and received the

following reply :  "

" DE"ARYoPuRrOdFiEsScSovOeRryTHisOMexPtSreOmN,ely  CA"MFBeRbIDruGaEr, y  29th, 1896.
                                                   interesting
                                                                         ; you will,
I presume, publish it without delay, especially as so many
Iare now working at the X-rays. For my own part am
not at all disposed to believe that the Rontgen Rays are due
Ito normal vibrations, the hypothesis to which Rontgen
himself leans.     think it far more probable that they are

transversal vibrations of excessive frequency. That being
186 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Ithe case, think what you have discovered belongs to the

same class of phenomena as TyndalPs calorescence. . . .

I am in correspondence with Lord Kelvin about the Ront-
Igen Rays, and should like to refer to your discovery, but
Ido not mean to do so till you have published your result.

  should be glad, therefore, of a notice of the publication.

IPerhaps you may be writing to him yourself. Of course

if you have done so am free to say anything to him. He
is very enthusiastic, and might let something slip out
without thinking about it. Yours very truly,

                                                "G. G. STOKES."

   On March 2nd Thompson received another letter from

Sir George Stokes :

  I" fear you have already been anticipated. See Becquerel,

Comptes Rendus for February 24th, p. 420, and some papers
in two or three meetings preceding that."

This showed that, almost simultaneously, Thompson

working in London, and M. Henri Becquerel in France, both

discovered a new kind of ray. They continued their

experiments, and in May Thompson sent in an account of

his results, and of his   new discovery, which               he named
                               His paper was not             read until
" Hyperphosphorescence."

June 6th, and in the meantime M. Becquerel published an

account of his discovery without giving the new rays any

nnaemw era;yshiswearceconuanmtedaptpheear"edBebceqfuoerreel  Thompson's,  and the
                                                               Rays."

Not discouraged by this, Thompson went on working at

researches on luminescence and on means of producing

better X-rays effects from the Crookes' tubes. By using a

concave piece of metal inside the tube as a radiating surface

for the Kathode rays, he was able to focus them better. He

got a firm in Paris to make some similar tubes, and this

firm wrote  sraeyqinuge,stin" gCesthatutbethseydomnniegnhtt  obtain the right to
sell them,                                                   une puissance bien

plus grande que oeux actuels de Rb'ntgen. Nous les

appelerons tubes focus du Professor S. Thompson."

Later in April he received the following letter from M.

Pellat, then secretary of the Societe Frangaise de Physique,

concerning these focus tubes :
  RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 187

   " Us ont eu beaucoup de succes a la Societe de Physique,
et ont etc beaucoup admires de toutes les personnes a qui
je les ai montres. J'ai pu faire devant la Societe une
epreuve tres bien venue avec un tube focus construit sur vos
indications par M. Chaband."

   As was his frequent habit during the Easter vacation,
Thompson went in 1891 to Paris to attend the Annual
Meeting of the Societe Fran9aise de Physique, on the
Council of which he was an elected member. On this

occasion he had agreed to show experiments and apparatus

and give an account of his recent researches.

   He wrote to his wife from Paris on April 3rd :

   " The passage across the Channel was most delightful,

Ias we had bright sunshine nearly all the way. Yet the

land journey was dull on both sides. had no end of bother
with the douane at Boulogne about my box of apparatus,
as it was not registered through to Paris ; indeed, not being
a trunk, but a wooden box with lid screwed down, the
railway folk would not register it at all."
                                                 " April Uh.
I" have had a busy day.  IFirst  went to the Societ6 de

Physique to see what were the arrangements ; then to the
Gare du Nord to fetch my box. Then back to the Societe
de Physique. After lunch a call on M. Cornu, who was out,
then on M. Potier, who was President of the Societe at the

time of the Exhibition (1889) and who enquired after you.
For the past three years he has been paralysed on his left
Iside. He evidently appreciated a visit, and is immensely

interested in the Rontgen Rays. Then called on M.
Michelet, the publisher ; and, after watching a fire in the

IRue de Rivoli, came home to dine. To-morrow am going
to spend an hour or so with Dr. Koenig, and perhaps shall
get as far as the Bois in the afternoon."
                                                                         "April 5th.

  I"After morning breakfast betook myself to M. Koenig,
Iwith whom spent about an hour and a half. He looks aged
far from well.
Then walked,
Iand"           via  Notre-Dame and        the statue  of Henri

Quatre, and the Quai Voltaire almost as far as the Eiffel

I ITower, to call on M. Mascart, whom found at home.
did not stop long ; but my principal object was accom
188 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

Iplished in leaving with him a manuscript which wrote last
Inig"ht  to be read at the Academic des       Sciences on
          discovered on Saturday that         the French        Tuesday.
                                                                 folk are

desperately behind-hand in the matter of the Rontgen Rays ;

Iso set to work to write a little information. Unfortunately,
I have not brought with me any of my results, nor any of
the apparatus : and, owing to the holidays, it is impossible
to get any over, as the College is locked up, and the Sergeant
Iaway on his holiday. The day has been fine, with an

Italian sky, and a fresh breeze from the north, so deter
mined to spend the afternoon in a walk about the Buttes de

Montmartre. The new enormous Basilica of the Sacred

Heart, now nearly completed, stands on the highest point.
From its terrace there is a magnificent panorama of the
I Icit"y--
           quite  unequalled,     should suppose.
           heard   service for  about ten minutes       in  an  immense

and perspiring crowd, and then made tracks for my hotel."

I" This morning                                                 " April 6th.
                      spent unpacking my apparatus at the
Soci6te de Physique ; after lunch returned here to write.

At four o'clock in came M. Tommasi to talk electrical
things with me, and he stayed till nearly six, and dinner is

jus"t  over.      of  noisy  Americans     has turned up here,  who

       A party

make the reading-room unendurable. They express their
astonishment that the Parisians don't know anything about
Trilby. Apparently they have derived their knowledge of
                      fro"m  that             for them          is Paris,
Paris exclusively       \          source  ;            Trilby
and Paris, Trilby
                                                       " April 7<fc.
" Of to-day there is little to chronicle,     because there has

been so much to do ! My paper on the X-rays was read by

M. Mascart at the Academic this afternoon. Ramsay turned

up there. He is on his way back from the Pyrenees, where
he has been collecting samples of gases from well-waters in
the search for helium. He came also to the Sooiete de

IPhysique to-night. My show of things went off well.
met Mascart, Joubert, Desroziers, Koenig, Palas, and

Leduo."                                                   " April 9th.
                                              with affairs of the
   " Yesterday was entirely occupied          Perrin on X-rays --
Physical Society. First a lecture by M.
nothing new at all, but interesting. Then in the afternoon
RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 189

the exhibition of the apparatus till five o'clock. At seven
o'clock a dinner -- a little dinner at a restaurant by Ramsay
Ito eight of his French chemical colleagues, from which, at

nine o'clock, hurried away to repeat my experiments at
the Societe de Physique. Then back to this snug hotel,

I Iver"yTthirisedm. orning
                            was off early to pack up : after which
made two or three calls, and then caught the 12.50 train to

Noiseul with a party of about 1 30 members of the Societe de
Physique, where we visited the chocolate works of Menier,
and his model farm, in both of which electricity is used for

motive power. They have a vast establishment, most
beautifully kept. The comfort of the work-people is some
thing quite extraordinary. By five-thirty we were back in
IParis, and at six-thirty came the Council dinner of the

Societe de Physique, to which was invited, and found
Imyself placed on the right hand of the President. Happily
there were no speeches.                   met    a lot of men whose names

and work were well known to                      me, but whom I had not

Ikn"owTno-mpeorrsroonwally   before.      again  to  Koenig  ;  then  to some
                            am going
Iother ateliers about apparatus ; and in the afternoon
Ishall have M. Boistel with me. On Saturday have to
Ivisit the Sorbonne and afterwards the national laboratory

of research at Sevres, after which dine with M. Masoart."

  In May            Thompson     ognave"  a Friday evening       discourse at
                    Institution           Electric Shadows      and Lumine
the Royal
scence." It began with an account of Rontgen's discovery,

and its implications :

" The discovery was singular," he said, " it revealed the
                                      and hitherto unexpected species
existence of a      remarkable        another to the many puzzling
of radiation.
                    It added
                     attendant upon the discharge            of electricity in
pvahceunoo. meInta  proved that something, which             in the ordinary
sense in which those terms are used, is neither light nor

electiicity, was generated in the Crookes' tube, and passed
fro"mBiutt                                opaque alike to both.
            through substances            imagination of the multitude  by
            that which took the

storm, and aroused an interest the intensity of which has

not been known to be aroused by any other scientific dis
covery in our times, was not these facts, but the entirely
subsidiary and comparatively unimportant point that to
190 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

these mysterious radiations flesh is more transparent than
bone."

He showed the experiment of photographing the hand

oref mhairskinligttlethdaat,ug"httehrerebyis  exposure   to the Rontgen Rays,
                                               nothing  new about this part of

the subject :  it"  is the old photography ; there is no ' new
photography.'         (Referring to the popular description of
photographs taken by Rontgen Rays as " the new photo

graphy.")

He also photographed some metal substances shut up in

a box, and various precious stones, some real, and some

artificial. At the end of the lecture the photographs were

thrown on the screen, revealing his own discovery that real

gems were more transparent than paste or glass.

He concluded by saying :

   " Whatever these remarkable rays are, whether they are

vortices in the ether, or longitudinal vibrations, or radiant

matter which has penetrated the tube, or, lastly, whether
they consist simply of ultra-violet light, their discovery
affords us one more illustration of the fact that there is no

finality in science. The universe around us is not only
not empty, is not only not dark, but on the contrary,
                                                        is,

                                                                  :
absolutely full and palpitating with light though there

be light which our eyes may never see, and sounds which
ou"r
      ears  may never hear.  yet                  pronounced  its last            word     on
      But   science has not

the hearing of that which inaudible and the seeing that
                                              is

which invisible."
      is

On May 26th Thompson gave, by request, lecture to
                                                                               a

the   tOitxlefo"rdLuUmniinveesrcseitnyce.J"unioHr eScaigeanitnificgaCveluba ,   and chose    as
his                                                                            survey of   the

different phenomena of luminescence, dividing them into

nine different groups, of which he gave descriptions, and

illustrated them by the many wonderfully brilliant displays

of colour to which the subject lends itself. He dwelt on

the luminescence of various gems of which he had made

special study from the early days when he paid so much

attention to the curious properties of the tourmaline. He

gave an account of the Rontgen Rays, and also of the new
RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 191

rays discovered by himself and M. Henri Becquerel.        He
closed his lecture by saying :

   " But the one thing that gives to this whole subject of
luminescence a singular interest, from the practical point of
view, is that by its means we appear to be within measurable
distance of the invention of a new kind of artificial lighting.
Even in the incandescent gas lighting --which is partially a
luminescent phenomenon -- the heat waste is very great.
But the true luminescent light is a cold light ; the actual
rays that will give visible illumination being manufactured
without any simultaneous manufacture of heat. So that
the luminescent lamp of the future, whatever its shape or
tint, will be one giving a pure and a cold light, that will
neither poison the air with the fumes of combustion nor
over-heat it with wasted calorific vibrations."

A few days later Thompson received another letter from

Sir George Stokes dated May    28th.   H"eIttomo aywabse  experi
menting on luminescence, and   wrote,                      worth

while to mention to you a little experiment, though con

taining nothing new in principle." He then went on to

describe this new experiment, and also an old one which

he had made forty-three years before, on the same line of

research. In a postscript to the letter he wrote :

  I" may as well mention, in case you should not have

seen it, that in the last number of the Comptes Rendua is a
paper by Becquerel in which he mentioned that metallic
uranium shows the remarkable phenomenon, which you and
he discovered independently, about four times as strongly
as the salts of uranium he had previously used."

   Thompson received also in May the following letter from
Sir William Crookes :

"  MY""  DEAR SlLVANUS,
         Would you be willing
                               to  deliver  the course of six

Christmas Lectures next winter at the Royal Institution ?
We want a course on some branch of Physics, and you, as
an old Christmas Lecturer [referring to his Bristol days], will
understand the kind of thing required by the audience, and,
having this good notice, will be able to devise a sufficient
192 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

number of experiments to illustrate the course in a manner
worthy of the best traditions of the Institution and of
the distinguished lecturer. We will leave the selection of
the special subject to yourself."

of  Thompson accepted       thtietlei,nv"itLaitgiohnt  and chose the subject
    optics, giving, as his                             Visible and Invisible."

    The British Association was held that year at Liverpool,

and Thompson and his wife were the guests of his cousin,

Mr. Isaac Cooke Thompson, who was one of the local secre

taries for the Association. The gathering was a brilliant

success. Professor J. J. Thomson was President of the

Mathematical and Physical Section, and founded his address

on the discovery of Rontgen.

    Thompson read two papers,1 which were both fairly long,

giving accounts of all the results of his experiments of that

year, on Kathode Rays and Hyper-phosphorescent bodies.

Sir George Stokes, Dr. Dawson Turner, and Professor

Bjerknes of Stockholm took part in the important dis

cussions after the papers.

    Towards the end of the year Thompson had before him

a difficult task in endeavouring to make the problems of

optics interesting to a juvenile audience.
   The Christmas lectures at the Royal Institution were very

well attended, not only by juveniles, including the lecturer's

four little girls, but by their parents, and even such dis

tinguished grandparents as Sir Alfred Garrod and Sir

William Crookes. Many members of the Institution helped

to swell the number of attenders, who so filled the lecture

theatre and gallery that not a seat was left. One boy was

heard to say that he would rather go to Professor Thompson's

lecture than accept an invitation to a pantomime which

was offered to him.

    The lectures received extraordinarily, full reports in the

daily press. The Daily News had a leading article on them
after the conclusion of the course, in which it said :

   " The Christmas lectures for the young at the Royal

Institution have never been more fascinating than they are

    1 As reported in Engineering, October 16th, 1898.
RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 193

this season. Of the discourse of Professor Silvanus Thomp
son on Saturday we have given a fuller report than
usual, but no reader is likely to think it too long, and the
children who had the pleasure of seeing the marvellous
experiments described in it must have found the lecture
itself to be all too short. Professor Thompson showed a
series of beautiful vacuum-tubes of various forms, and
remarked that no discovery was ever made without some

thing going before and showed a vacuum-tube containing
some mercury which glowed when the tube was shaken, and
he asserted that Europe was as much excited by that small

instrument nearly 200 years ago as by the recent discovery

of Roentgen."
                   it,

                                          '

                                                is '

                                                                                    '

                                                                                                             :
The Standard also gave long accounts, and said

" Professor Silvanus Thompson on Saturday afternoon
concluded a remarkably able course at the Royal Institu
tion, which was of exceptional interest. The universe, he
said in his peroration, was, no doubt, full of vibrations of
which we have not as yet the remotest knowledge or the
slightest indication. This, however, true not of light only,
but also of many other things. No one had known that the

qualities he had spoken of belonged to the Crookes' tube,
and yet they had been there for twenty years. As year
after year passed by, one discovery would lead to another,
and thus science would creep on from point to point. So
we should gain in knowledge, ignorance being rolled a little

further    and  fduarrtkhneerssb.'ac"k,  and  we should  have  light                                            where
we now     had

These lectures were published as a volume in 1897 by

Messrs. Macmillan  Co., and each lecture was enlarged
         I I is
                              &
                        I
and elaborated by the addition of notes by the author. Mr.

Elihu Thomson wrote in November from Massachusetts
                                                         I
                                                                                               :
" It a book which think will be very useful to the
many enquiring youths who cannot be present at your
                                                         like the book
lectures.       wish my boys could hear them.

very much, and think that something of the kind has been

needed. should like to join the Roentgen Society."

   Reviewing the book, The Oxford Magazine said                :
   " By a happy combination of lucidity and apt illustra
tion Professor Thompson succeeds in making even the

        13
194 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

more abstruse phenomena of Optics intelligible to the lay
mind."

   The German translator of the book was Professor Otto
Lummer, a great authority on Optics, who used the title
Sichtbares und Unsichtbares Licht. The book was also
translated into French later on, when it was in its second
edition, to which two more chapters had been added.

    The Saturday Review wrote as follows :

  "It is delightfully refreshing to get away from the

unending stream of text-books with their abrupt transitions
from subject to subject, and their dull footnotes on stale
researches, of which no one in his senses takes the least
notice. And get away from it we certainly do in these
lectures of Professor Thompson, which more than accom
plish the work of an elementary text-book, and are full of
ideas excellent alike for teacher and pupil. The majority
of lectures still follow in the old rut of dry definition and
drier explanation, with the inevitable result that the pupil
gets no real grasp of the subject, though he may sometimes,
with their aid, blossom to the dignity of a degree. Refrac
tion, achromatism, polarisation, and the like, are familiar
words to many students, but they have the haziest of con
ceptions attached to them. To describe these things in the
simplest language, to introduce all possible analogies, to
attach to them the most definite of ideas --this should be the
aim of all teachers, and has of late been the method of the
best.

    Professor Thompson is capital from this point of view.
Step by step experiment and theory go hand in hand ; if
an experiment is to be explained, then we call on the un-
dulatory theory ; if the theory is to be assisted out of a
tight place, then experiment comes to its aid. These lectures
may lack the dignity of language, the wide view looking
far beyond the narrow limits of the subject possessed by
TyndalPs Lectures on Light ; but Tyndall lost sight of
those small intermediate steps, so all-important in making
clear the principles of science, and only those who have
been ' through the mill ' know how to fill up the gaps appro
priately. The explanation of refraction by the wave theory,
for instance, hinted at rather than developed by Tyndall,
is so expanded by Professor Thompson, that, armed with
a pair of compasses, a ruler, and the most elementary know
  RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 195

ledge of theory, the student may work out experiments iff
a mechanical way."

The second edition of Light Visible and Invisible came

out in 1910. The two chapters which were added to it

at that time were one on Radium, with portraits of Madame

and Monsieur Curie, its  doifscLoivgehretrs",  and the other, a lecture
on " The Manufacture                           given by Thompson to

the working men of York at the time of the meeting of the

British Association there in 1906. There was a great

demand for the book in its enlarged form, and it had soon

to be reprinted.

The subsidiary effects of Rontgen Rays, by means of

which photographs could be obtained, were at first rather

scorned by the physicists, but to surgeons and medical men

they seemed to be much the most important part of the dis

covery, and they were eager to learn more about them.

  In March 1896 the secretary of the Clinical Society of

London wrote to Thompson asking if he could give to their

Society a demonstration and explanation of the Rontgen

Rays. This he was very willing to do, and showed all that

could then be done by the rays at a meeting of the Society.

The members, who included some of the most eminent

surgeons of the day, were greatly interested and impressed.

   Thompson afterwards received many letters from surgeons
and doctors, and took a great interest in the continued

efforts made by many of them to develop this new instru

ment for acquiring surgical knowledge which had been put

into their hands.

In May 1897, after more than a year had elapsed since the

first publication of Rontgen's discovery, a number of the

medical men of London decided to form a Rontgen Society
in order that knowledge of advances in theory and practice

might be diffused. A small preliminary council was formed,

who approached Thompson with the request that he would

be their first President. He was then still busy with research

connected with     thpeapesrubojenct",  and had just  sent in to the
Royal Society a                         Cathode Rays  and some Ana

logous Rays," which was read in June 1897 and after
196 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

wards published in full in The Philosophical Transactions

of Ike Royal Society (vol. 190).
   The proposed new Society met with Thompson's full

approval ; he accepted the office of President, and helped

with great zeal in the onerous task of drawing up the
constitution. A large number of physicists and others
interested in the purely scientific side of the problems

joined in forming the Society, though even at the beginning

the medical profession contributed most to swell its ranks.
Among the Vice-Presidents were Professor Ferrier, F.E.S.,

J. Hall Gladstone, F.R.S., G. Fletcher Moulton, Q.C.,

F.R.S. The first Honorary Members were Professor

Rontgen, who was much interested in the foundation of

the Society, and Sir William Crookes. The first general
meeting of the Society was held in June, and the rules were
adopted. The election of officers also took place.

   As Thompson went that autumn to attend the British

Association meeting at Toronto, and was absent from
England many weeks, the Rontgen Society decided not to
hold their opening meeting until November. This meeting
took the form of a Conversazione, held in St. Martin's Hall,

the President gave his address, and various pieces of appara
tus and X-ray photographs were on exhibition. The
membership in the first year reached nearly two hundred.

   Thompson's presidential address consisted in large

measure of an account of the discovery of the Rontgen
Rays. He then went on to say :

" No sooner, however, was Roentgen's discovery placed
before the world than its
once seen and acknowledged.  immense importance     was   at
                                                    time
                               No discovery of our        --

or of any other time-- has been followed by so immediate
and universal an outburst of scientific activity. The
revival of interest it has caused in the science of optics has
bee"nThtreuelylecretrmicaiarnkabsleei.zed upon it with scarcely less avidity.
Every photographer, amateur and professional, found in it
a new point of departure, and hastened to practise the black
art of skiagraphy. But most of all did it appeal to the
medical profession as affording a means of investigation of
the most astonishing power, revealing in the living body
  RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 197

deep-seated structures, which previously could only be
 diagnosed from the exterior, or else explored directly by the
 probe or the scalpel of the anatomist. Very shortly also
the Roentgen Rays were discovered to possess electrical
and chemical properties of a truly remarkable kind, giving
scope to the physical investigator, and demanding his most

acu"teMedainstcimrime inthaetionna.ture of the rays themselves gave ample

food for speculation and research. Nearly two years have
elapsed since Roentgen's discovery was made public. Dur
ing that time thousands of workers all over the globe have
busied themselves in the new branch of science thus opened
 out ; and of these thousands a few have been able to make
contributions of permanent value to science. Given the
discovery, it is easy to follow out its developments :

                       " ' All can raise the flower now
                            Most have got the seed.'

   " As our Society is composed of those who are desirous
of aiding and following out that development, it is ger

mane to our purpose that a brief review of that which has
been achieved should be made."

    Thompson then dealt with the improvements in the
apparatus which had been made during the two years.
Addressing himself to a society principally composed of
surgeons, the bearing of the invention upon surgery and
medicine occupied the most important place in this eloquent,
instructive, and scholarly address. Turning to advances
in the results attained and in the applications of the dis
covery, he said :

   " We are confronted with a marvellous record of progress.
Excepting only the introduction into surgery by Lord
Lister of antiseptics, and the discovery of anaesthetics, no
discovery in the present century has done so much for
operative surgery as this of the Roentgen Rays."

   He ended his discourse thus :

   " It is clear, then, that our little Society has an abundant

field before it to engross the activities of its members, not
only for the approaching winter, but for many years to
come. Already there are three journals established --one
198 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

in England, one in Germany, one in America -- for the

publication of observations and discoveries connected with

the"  Roentgen Bays.     opened  the  way into  the  wilderness  ;
      The pioneers have
not until every corner is explored and charted will the work
of our Society be ended. But, while life is short and art

is long, science expands without limit or term. But, whether
working in a modern laboratory equipped by the foresight

and at the expense of an enlightened municipality, as
Roentgen did, or whether compelled by force of circum
stances to experiment in isolation or obscurity, the scientific
worker who patiently tracks out the unexplored pathways
of Nature is certain, sooner or later, to succeed in pene
trating a little further into the mysteries of the unknown.
His"  work, however  unambitious, is not in vain.
      'Nature never  did betray the heart that loved  her.' "

   During his year of office as President Thompson was
diligent in attending its committees, and presiding at its
Monthly Meetings generally held at the Medical Society's
rooms in Chandos Street, Cavendish Square. The year
was a very successful one, both as regarded the papers and
discussions and the membership and financial support.
The Council were very anxious that Thompson should
consent to be elected for a second year, but he could not
undertake to give up sufficient time, and he was also con
vinced that the next President should be a medical man.

   The Society continued to nourish, and as a rule the

Presidents were alternately medical men and men who

were devoted to the purely scientific problems. In 1907 the
Presidency fell to the late Mr. William Duddell, F.R.S.,

one of the most brilliant young scientific men of the day,
who had been a student at the Central Technical College,

and had also attended Thompson's courses of evening
lectures at Finsbury. He frequently consulted with
Thompson about the Society, and was most devoted to its

interests.
   The Rontgen Society was now in a very flourishing con

dition ; it had its Library and its own Journal. Since the
discovery of Radium it had altered its rules to enlarge
the scope of its studies, and include in addition to X-rays
RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 193

" allied phenomena in their relation to Medicine, the Arts,

and Sciences."

The last piece of research work shown to the Society by

Thompson was in reference to the physiological effects pro

duced by putting the head near a powerful alternating

electromagnet.

   When preparing Kelvin's biography he found in the

Popular Lectures and Addresses some mention of earlier

experiments upon what he himself had previously noticed,

faint visual effects on placing his forehead near an alter

nating electromagnet, with which he was experimenting.
In 1908 he had written to Sir Oliver Lodge about
                             I:                           and

received the following reply              it it

                                                    is

                                                     I it,
" do not much like the idea of putting my head in an
AI                            think ought to be a steady
alternating magnetic field.
magnet to give a really new effect.
." moving or alternating magnet must, of course, induce
E. M. F. in conducting tissues, and
                                     only a question
of the amount. The old Volta experiment of zinc and
silver on tongue and lip shows that the impression of a flash

of light may be caused by very moderate voltage.            am

afraid, therefore, that your observation may be only a
variant of that."

   Thompson, however, was quite convinced that what he      : of
had observed was not akin to the Volta experiment, and
Icontinued his research into the cause of the phenomena at
Finsbury, and in 1910 he communicated the results to the
Royal Society in a paper entitled, Physiological Effectsif

an Alternating Magnetic Field. In December 1911 he
received a letter from Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton saying

   " was requested by the Council to approach you again
to see whether you could not be induced to show to the
Roentgen Society your experiments with the alternating
magnet on the human head. Great interest was expressed
in these experiments, particularly by some of the medical
men present, and what was thought was that, the Society
could be allowed to meet one evening at Finsbury College,
the individual members might be allowed to put their heads
200 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

in the magnet as a preliminary, and we might then after
wards have a discussion on the subject."

The meeting of the Society in Thompson's laboratory

took place the following March 1912, and was attended by

many well-known medical men.
A year after Thompson's death in 1917 the Rontgen

Society decided to endow a Memorial to its first President,

and it  was       r"esSoillvveadnutso  create an annual lectureship, to be
        the                            P. Thompson Memorial Lecture,"
called

and that a bronze medal bearing his portrait should be

presented to the lecturer.

The first lecture was given in April 1918 at Burlington

House by Professor Sir Ernest Rutherford, F.R.S., who

in the introduction to his lecture said :

I" feel it a great honour to be asked to give the first
... Iof the annual lectures you have instituted in memory of- the
late Professor Silvanus P. Thompson.       am sure we

can all agree that the Roentgen Society made a very
fortunate choice in selecting Professor S. P. Thompson
as their first President, for he was a man not only dis
tinguished as a teacher, investigator, and writer on technical
science, but was, in addition, greatly interested in the advance
of pure science, especially in the domain of optics. This
is well shown by his contributions on Light, and by that
                  book Light, Visible and Invisible, published      in
e1x8c9e7l.lentIt  was his interest in all types of radiation that  led

Ihim to make experiments on X-rays immediately after

their discovery, and, understand, he was one of the first to
obtain X-ray photographs in this country. Subsequently
he was able to show that the efficiency of X-ray tubes was

increased by the use of heavy elements like platinum and

uranium, as anticathode, and made other researches on

the effect of a magnetic field on the discharge in a vacuum-
tube. .With his interest in pure science and its application,
it must have been a gratification to him to become your
first President, and to guide your infant steps along the
path of progress. Apart from his presidential address, his

most notable contribution to the Society was an account
of his experiments on the physiological effect on the head
of a powerful alternating magnetic field, serving as an
RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 201

illustration of the catholicity of his scientific interest and

his"  versatility.  ...     the  admirable  presidential  address

      In reading     again
of Professor S. P. Thompson to this Society in 1897, before
a brilliant audience, and which, we are told, occupied forty

minutes, one cannot but recall the exciting atmosphere of
that time, and the extraordinary interest that was aroused,

in the lay and the scientific mind alike, by the discovery
of the Roentgen Rays. Naturally in his address, prominence
was given to the medical application of those rays for the
advancement of which the Roentgen Society was primarily
              and for which it has done
fou"ndBeudt,                                such admirable work.
              an interesting account was
at that time of the nature and origin       given   also  of the ideas
                                            of the  new   rays -- ideas

that have in the main received complete verification in

recent years."

   The two following letters from Lord Kelvin to Thompson
should be quoted here, as showing the estimation of Thomp
son's work on the subjects dealt with in this chapter by

his great contemporary, although they have been already
printed in the Life of Lord Kelvin.

I" DEA" R                        " NETHE"RHOcAtIoiLb,er   LARGS,
                                                          10th, 1899.

              THOMPSON,      in vain in encyclopedias and text
              have looked

books for something that every one doesn't know regarding
the phosphorescence of luminous paint, Canton's phos
phorus, etc. : so, as you know more than encyclopedias and
Itex"t-(b1)ooCkasn
              put together,      apply to you.            the effect
               you tell me   what is known regarding
Iof temperature ?   find, with little copper plates and a
glass plate painted with Balmain's luminous paint, that

the warmth of my hand greatly increases the glow due to
Iprevious illumination ; and that, if of two similar plates,

equally dosed with light, keep one for an hour or two
warmer by 10° or 20° C. than the other, it glows more
brightly than the other till it cools, and becomes darker
than the other in a minute or two, when it is cold like the
other. Hence it appears that the warmth causes the stored
Ilight to be given out faster.
                                 suppose this is well known,
I Ibu"t
  haven't found it          told anywhere   that can remember.
(2) Is there good           information as  to the excitement of
202 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Iordinary phosphorescence by different parts of a homo

geneous spectrum ? have heard it said that the phos
phorescent light may be of either shorter or longer period

than the originating light. In Stokes'a fluorescence he found

the fluorescent light always of longer period than the

ori"gi(n3a) tiDngo. you know Dewar's splendid phosphorescence of
egg-shells and other ordinary solids at very low tempera
tures ? Was it generated by incident light at the low
Itemperature, and did it only appear brilliantly when the

temperature was raised 1 have been looking through the
Ph"il.(4M) aDgo.,       can find nothing of it.
                   and   know what Edmond         Becquerel          did in
                   you

respect to effect of ultra-red radiation on phosphorescence ?
I remember him telling me of it, or showing it to me a great
Ima"n(y5)yeDaors             can't remember exactly what it was.
                   ago, but  anything of Stokes's experiments on
                   you know

the subject ?                        " Yours very truly, " KELVIN."

Thompson's reply to this letter is unfortunately not to

be found, but the sense of it may be inferred from Kelvin's

letter of a few days later :            "

"DEA"RYoTuHOhMaPvSeONsp, lendidly          N Vni"icOitnctoAbI e,Lr,  LARQS,
                                                                     14th, 1899.

                                     verified the validity of my
applying to you for information ' not to be found in
Iencyclopedias or ordinary text-books ' on a very interesting

and important scientific subject ; and am most grateful
to you        for your  leIttfeeerl  of the llth, and the copy       of your
Oxford        Lecture.                                               Lecture
                                     now that, with your Oxford
Iand your Light Visible and Invisible, and the exceedingly

interesting answers to my questions in your letter, have
all that is known on the subject and as fair a view as

Ipos"siIbnle   towards    the omne scibile.   of the  extreme        red,
              respect   to BecquerePs effect
thought it likely that the explanation would be what you
              it has turned out to be.
              to Stokes, hope to see
meItel"l                                him   at  Cambridge          at the
As
Iend of the month, and to extract all can from him, which
I believe will include something vitally important not yet
published.
RESEARCHES ON LIGHT AND RADIATION 203

I" hope to see yourself still sooner, as we are going to
ILondon on Monday next for the opening of Parliament.

  would like to come and see you, if you will allow me, in
Finsbury one of these days ; and to see anything you could
quite conveniently show me in the way of phosphorescence
or the Phillips phenomenon, or any other of the splendid
                                       to have at hand.
thin"gWs iyllouyomu aygivcehanmcee     a line, addressed  Fleming's  Hotel,
Halfmoon St., Piccadilly (where we shall arrive on Monday
evening), to say if there is any time in the forenoon of
Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday (18th, 19th, or 20th), when
Iit
w" oAusldtobtehecoEnlveecntireicnat l  for you that should    come.
                                       Engineers' dinner on  December  6th,
I I Iam afraid must not come.
                                       expect to be settled here
Ifor the winter by that time. . . . However, we can speak
of this when we meet, as               hope "wYeoushrsall,venreyx"ttKrwuEleLyeV,kI.N."
                     CHAPTER X

WORK FOB THE INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
           AND INTERNATIONAL ELECTRICAL CONGRESSES

SILVANUS THOMPSON was proposed as a member of the

Society of Telegraph Engineers and Electricians by

Professor George Carey Foster, F.R.S., in the year 1882.

He was elected       "thRaet myaerakr,s  and  in 1883  read his first           paper
to the Society,                           on  Contact  Resistance,"             after

wards printed in the Journal.

it  That  same       ye"aTrhteheInSstoitcuietitoynchoafngEedlecittrsictaitl le   to the one
    now   bears,                                                                Engineers."

Thompson was not, however, able to attend its meetings

with any regularity until he removed to London in 1885.

These meetings were at that time held in the Hall of the

Civil Engineers in Great George Street, Westminster, and
it was not until many years later that the present institu

tion building on the Embankment was purchased.

   In 1886 he was elected a member of the Council, on which

he continued to serve after he had passed the Presidential

Chair. He was also elected on to many of its committees,

and, as Chairman of the Research Committee, he had the

pleasure of initiating many researches, some of which have

proved most useful to the electric industry.

    He frequently took an important part in its discussions,

and in 1888 contributed one of his remarkable historical
papers, "
Professor  The Influence   M"acchoiunled      from  1788 to 1888,"              which,
            Ayr ton said,                     have   been written               by no

o"thReortamtoarny."     Another noteworthy    communication                     was  on
                     Converters," which he     gave in 1898.

    After he had held the office of Vice-President for several

years, it seemed probable that the choice of the Council

                                         204
   INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 205

would fall upon him to be President in 1899. The office is,
as a rule, held for only one year, and during 1898 it had

been filled by Sir Joseph Wilson Swan.

   The year 1899 was a remarkable one for electricians, as
it was the centenary of the invention of the Pile by the
great Volta. The Italians were celebrating it by holding
an Electrical Exhibition at Como, his birthplace. His

tomb and the mausoleum erected to his memory were

situated near the town.

   The International Electrical Congress had arranged to

hold its next meeting at Como in September, and Thompson

had planned to be present, and during the previous winter

had been taking conversational lessons in Italian.

   Ever since his first visit to Italy in 1892, he had been
keeping in touch with several Italian electricians whom

he had met then, and subsequently, at Paris and Frankfort

during meetings of the Congress.
   His work on the Dynamo was well known in Italy, as his

books had been translated into Italian.
   In November 1898 he was made foreign
"  Associazione elettrotecnica italiana" ; this  member of the
                                                 was announced

to him by Signor G. Colombo (afterwards Commendatore,
                               Milan, who wrote
and Senatore del   Regno) of    : " We consider  from the Reale
                    Superiore
Instituto Tecnico                                it a very great

honour to have you among us in the Associazione, and are

very glad that our Statute admits foreign members. We

will inscribe you in the section of Milan."

  In 1891 Thompson had already been made a Member of

the Council of the Societ6 Internationale des Electriciens,

and a Vioe-President of the Electrical Exhibition at Frank

fort, where the Congress was held that year. Accom

panied by his wife, he spent several weeks in July of that

year there. He, Professor Ayrton, Mr. Preece, Dr. Hopkin-

son, Professor Fleming, and Mr. Kapp were appointed on

the Commission for the examination of the exhibits. The
Exhibition was one of great interest ; it was lit by an electric

current, brought from Laufen, where a fall in the river

Rhine provided power to work the dynamos, and the

current was carried by overhead wires to Frankfort. Visitors
206 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

to the Exhibition had also the privilege of riding on the

first electric tramway.

Owing to the Exhibition, the subjects taken up by the

International Congress were of a more technical character

than they had been on previous occasions. During its

sittings Thompson read three   p"aApeltresrniantidnigfferCeunrtresnetcst,i"onshe;
one, the most important, on

gave in German. This Congress was the means of his being

introduced to many of the electricians of Europe, German,

Russian, Italian, Swedish, with whom he afterwards main

tained very friendly relations.

  It ended as usual with a banquet, to which (not as usual)

the wives and daughters of members were invited. This

was given in the Palmengarten, the small Crystal Palace of

Frankfort.

The President of the Congress, Dr. von Stephan, Post

master-General of Germany, presided, and many speeches

wofer"e  made.   Thompson had  been asked  to  propose  the toast
         German  Science."

He spoke partly in German and partly in English, and in

the course of it made an eloquent appeal to the members

that science should be made more and more international,

and that scientific men should rise above the jealousies of

diplomatists and traders, and co-operate for the benefit
of mankind, ending with the words " Lcbe hoch ! die

Deutsche Wissenschaft." This speech was received most

enthusiastically, members of the Congress coming from all

parts of the hall to congratulate the speaker.

The following extracts from letters to his wife during

her absence from home in the spring of 1 899 refer to matters

·onnected with the Institution of Electrical Engineers.

                                                               " March 23rd, 1899.

   " Thursday's meeting at the Electrical Engineers went
off capitally. Mrs. Ayrton [a former Finsbury Student]

delivered her paper in capital style, and the experiments
worked well. She has made a really important discovery
as to the physics of the arc -- namely, that the hissing, when
it occurs, is due to oxygen getting to the white-hot carbon
surface. There were a lot of ladies present. Mrs. Swan,
INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 207

Mrs. Mordey, Mrs. Maxim -- also Edie and Barbie [the
Misses Ayrton]. Everybody seemed a little bit excited,

Irealising that it was a somewhat unusual occasion. spoke
afterwards, and congratulated Mrs. Ayrton on having
Ifound the clue and furnished a disproof of one of the
fallacies which       had had more than once to contend

against in that room. Swan presided, and looks in perfect

Ihea"lth.have had the good fortune of getting an Italian lesson
this week :    for    there   called upon             me yesterday        Signor
Pescetto of  Turin           old friend of           Ferraris ' --who     speaks
                      --an

Isca"rcetoaowkohrdimoftoElnugnlcishh,atanSdpienrost   much more   French.      in
                                                     and Pond's  Restaurant
Ithe City, and found a table where was an Italian waiter.

  talked Italian --after a fashion --with him for two and a
half hours ! He intends to be at Como ; and had heard
that you intend to be there. He sent his compliments to

you in advance."                                      "April llth, 1899.
                                                     This afternoon the
I"  have some news for you to-day.
Council of the Electrical Engineers unanimously elected
me as their choice for the Presidency, though, of course,
the formal election by the General Meeting does not take
Ipla"ceItunwtails, a
                    month hence.      foregone       conclusion      that the
                       am told, a
Inomination would be unanimous. It is a great honour ;

and to-night have had the responsibilities of the office
Irat"heHrowtheavneri,tsthdeignCitoieusnciulpoisn
Ishall be well supported.              my mind.      together,            and
                                      pulling well
                                   am glad that there is an end to

I Iunc"ertaaimntienso.t quite sure that can meet you at Paddington
I Ion Thursday. If can will. Thursday evening is the
                               "Mrs.  Ayrton's                            I.E.E.
continued    discussion'  of                         paper       at  the
           come to this
Will you                    ?

  It was the custom for the newly elected President of the

Institution to receive the guests at the Annual Soiree, of

the members and their friends, which was generally held
at the Natural History Museum, South Kensington, in the

month of June.

   1 Mrs. Thompson had translated from the Italian some of the electrical
i>ublicationa of the late Professor Galileo Ferraris, first President of the
Aasociazione Electrotecnica, who died in 1897 at the age of forty.
208 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

   It was with some consternation that Thompson and his

wife received, towards the end of May, a proposal from
Colonel Crompton, the commander of the Electrical
Engineers' Volunteer Corps, that the volunteers should on
this occasion provide a guard of honour for the President
and his wife at their reception. This would have been an
innovation, and would have seemed very incongruous in

the case of a Quaker President.
   The following letter explains the feelings with which

Thompson regarded the proposal.

     I"                                           " May 27th, 1899.
       DE"AR  COLONEL CROMPTON,         letter  of the 20th instant
              am quite sure that your
was intended to be for the good of the Institution, and not

Ifor"  the  purpose of   compromising me.       from  the  very first
            you must    surely remember that
       But
     have declined to have anything to do with the Electrical
IEngineers' Volunteer Corps, and that on the occasion

when it was first suggested was the Member of Council
Iwho on principle opposed its formation. On that occasion

  was in a minority of two.1 My views on this matter have
Ibeen openly known from the first, and the circumstance

that by the good-will of my colleagues have been chosen
IPresident for the current year does not alter them. During

my year of presidency, while shall certainly defer to the
wishes of the majority, and so far sink my own views as to
remain silent in my opposition to the movement of which,
Isince Dr. Hopkinson's lamented death, you have become

the head shall also equally certainly decline to take any
I Inew step, in promoting that to which, as a matter of con
science, am opposed.      am fully aware that your efforts

are unselfishly devoted to that which you believe to be for
                the Institution.
Ithe"            appreciate gratefully
       good of                          your courtesy      in thus
       While
Iconsulting my wishes before moving in this matter, hope
that, under the circumstances, you will not put me into the
painful position of having to oppose any suggestion that

might emanate from you. Believe me, dear Mr. Crompton,
yours always sincerely."

Mr. Crompton at once replied in the most friendly manner,
1 His old friend, the late Professor G. Carey Foster, F.R.S., was the other.
INSTITUTION OF ELECTEICAL ENGINEERS 209

abandoning the proposal, saying that it was intended as a

special honour for this occasion. He also remarked that he

had    understood  that the Quaker, John     Bright,   had said :
      you want to                            for it."  Thompson
" If               prevent war, be prepared
/in his letter of thanks, retorted to this last remark, " knew
John Bright, and you did not ; his actions did not tally

with the words you ascribe to him."

   This was not the only time in the career of Thompson
that he was uncompromising in his attitude towards
militarism, and this position which he took up, and main

tained throughout his life, was on at least one occasion the

cause of his losing the chance of an important academic

promotion. It was with extreme regret that he saw the

English Universities admitting the study of military tactics

into their curricula and promoting that spirit of militarism

which he had observed to be producing such baneful results

on the continent of Europe.

   Thompson was no mere passivist ; he believed in trying
to be a pacifist by the promotion of international under

standing and intercourse, and during his presidency he was
able to inaugurate, in a most successful manner, one means

to help to bring this about.
   His gift of tongues, his constant reading of foreign

scientific journals, his frequent correspondence with men

of science all over Europe, had placed him in an almost

unique position for the promotion of these ideas of inter
national friendship. He had felt for many years that the
limitation caused by a far too narrow and insular outlook

on electrical science was gravely to the disadvantage of the

British electrical engineers. So when he became President

he determined to arrange excursions to various centres of

electrical development abroad, in the hope of educating
at least many of the younger members of the Institution
in knowledge of what was being done on the Continent.

   He proposed that they should visit Switzerland first,

and undertook to get permission from some of the pro
prietors of the largest electrical engineering works in that
country to allow members of the Institution to see them.

   The proposal was taken up by several members of the

      14
210 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Council, and a committee was appointed to arrange for a
visit to Switzerland in the beginning of September.

   The soiree of this season at which Thompson presided
took place at the Natural History Museum, and was one
of the largest that had been held. Among the members

present were large numbers of his old students and their

wives and fiancees, and many were the introductions which
had to be made. The scientific circle of London was well

represented, and personal friends of the Thompsons also

came to congratulate them on the new position of honour.

  In July Thompson received a letter from Professor Oliver

Lodge, asking if he could give a lecture  to a      Students'
Society in Liverpool during the autumn.

   His reply was as follows :

I I" wish could say yes to your invitation to lecture to
Iyour Students' Society ; but must not. Next autumn
I shall  have a very, very heavy time.    For, not  --onnloy
I the                                                         have
         presidency of the I.E.E. on    my hands              light
duty, with three committees on an average every week --but

my college staff is almost entirely new, Mr. O'Keefe being
Ithe only one who has been with me as much as one session ;

even my lecture preparer is new. Hence shall have no
          and dare not add    t--o feonr,gaegxecmepetntRs.oyaTl heInsqtuiteusttiioonn
Ileisure,one of remuneration

is not
lectures, have taken no fee for outside lectures for several

years past."

   Thompson's practice as a Consulting Electrical Engineer
had grown considerably during recent years, and of course
his position as President of the Institution brought more
work of that kind to him. He was, however, obliged to
decline a good deal of it on account of his heavy duties at

Finsbury, although he had obtained permission from the

City Guilds Committee of the College to undertake a limited
amount of such outside work. He was very frequently
consulted about new electrical schemes and undertakings

by public bodies throughout the country.

   The cessation of his college duties early in July found

him immersed in preparations for the Swiss visit, for the

carrying out of which a strong committee had been formed,
  INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 211

but the initial approaches to the Swiss manufacturers had
to be made by himself.

    The Secretary of the Institution, Mr. W. G. McMillan,
was invaluable as an assistant in this scheme. But on

July 8th he wrote to Thompson that he was still much

exercised in his mind on the difficulties of organising a trip
across Europe for about two hundred people, many of whom
had never been abroad before, and spoke no language but
their own. Thompson came to the rescue, and about a
week later Mr. McMillan, who had been sent out to Switzer
land to make final arrangements, and go over the ground,
wrote from Zurich that all plans seemed to be going forward

satisfactorily.
    Thompson spent August with his family at Whitby,

taking a good rest, and passing many hours sketching in the
picturesque old town.

    On September 1st he and Mrs. Thompson travelled to
Basle, the rendezvous for those taking part in the Swiss
Reunion.

    The excursion was a success from the first ; people
seemed determined to make the best of any little contre

temps which occurred, and the programme was carried
out without a hitch. The power station at Rheinfelden

and numerous electric engineering works were visited.

   One of the most interesting excursions was to the Jung-
frau Electric Railway, then in course of construction and
completed as far as the Eiger Glacier, though not then open
to the public. The party were taken up by train as far as
the line was laid, and were also allowed to inspect the
works of the Railway.

   At the conclusion of the Swiss Reunion Thompson and

the Committee were quite satisfied with the usefulness of
this new departure in the history of the Institution.

   From Switzerland the Thompsons went on into Italy,
and had a few days of quiet at Bellagio before the com
mencement of the International Electrical Congress at
Como. While staying there they visited Signor Colombo
in his beautiful villa on the opposite side of Lake Como,
and also made the acquaintance of several of the Italian
212 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

members of the Congress, who were staying on the lake

side.

  A great disaster had befallen the Exhibition at Como
during the month of July, when it had been almost entirely

destroyed by fire and large numbers of most precious relics
of Volta had been burnt. With undaunted courage, how
ever, the Italians rebuilt their Exhibition, and from all

over Europe scientific bodies and individuals did their
best to help, by loans of relics or manuscripts relating to
Volta's work.

   Thompson, as President of the Institution, had been
appointed a member of the Comitato Onorevole of the
Exhibition, and he had at once written to Sig. Cadenazzi,
the Mayor of Como, offering to lend MSS. and letters from
his collection. His letter making this offer written to the
Mayor of Como was printed in extenso in the little Como

newspaper, La Provincia di Como, of July 21st, with

many expressions of appreciation of his sympathetic
action.

   King Humbert and Queen Margharita, accompanied by
the Crown Prince and Princess, came to Como to reopen
the Exhibition, and, their visit coinciding with th« opening
sitting of the International Electrical Congress, they also
attended its first meeting.

   The opening address was given by Professor Augusto
Righi, of Bologna, and then a paper was given by Thompson
on Magnetic Images. He gave this in Italian, and it was
afterwards published by the Associazione Elettrotecnica
Italiana at Milan in 1900 under the title Intorno alle Im-

magini Magnetiche.

   A few days later the Physical Society of Italy also held

a Congress at Como ; at its second session Thompson took
part in a discussion on a paper on certain phenomena of
magnetic currents given by Professor Donati of Bologna.

   On the Sunday following the Congress, Thompson and
his wife drove out to see the tomb of Volta at Camnago,
a few miles from Como. Here, seated in a corner of the

little graveyard, he made a very successful water-colour
drawing of Volta's tomb amid its picturesque cypresses.
INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 213

   The following week was occupied by excursions, to visit

Electric Stations at Paderno, Vizzola, and Milan. At the

latter city a meeting of the Associazione Elettrotecnica,

of which Thompson's good friend Signor G. Colombo was

President, took place. He attended some of the meetings,

but, after this surfeit of Congresses, was glad to get home
to take up his heavy duties of the autumn. A few months

later  "heforrehceisivewdorkfroinm   Como the   "Diploma di Benemer-
enza                                connection  with the Exhibition and

Congress.
   The Presidential Address to the Institution was given on

November 16th, 1899.

  It was devoted to the subject of the future work and

development of the Institution.

" The advancement of Science," he said, " depends
largely upon the initial co-operation of science workers
and of the Societies founded for the diffusion and co
ordination of knowledge. Rightly conducted, the influence
of such an Institution as ours, both within and without its

bor"deItrs,maisy  very  great.      lasting  service in directing atten
                  do a  real and

tion to the things that make for progress. The develop

ment of our electrical industry is determined by inter
national factors, supplies of raw materials, cost of transport,
relative technical skill and training of our designers and
manufacturers, in this and other countries."

These extracts may serve to show the trend of his address.

In proposing a vote of thanks to the President, Mr. W. M.

Mordey said :

" Now we see him in a new capacity --as a prophet, for

to-night he has departed            --aflrlwomisthuctcwheehssicufuhsluahpel ropipsrahvcetetiscrye--. wbeuHltlecwohimtahs
dealt, not  with the
petent to   deal --as   past
                        are

the future. This has been a fighting address. Dr. Thompson
has peered into the future, he has seen things that are
happening in that future, and he has come and told us what

those things are."

   Writing in The Journal of Electrical Engineers many
years later, Dr. Alexander Russell said of this Presidential
214 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Address : " Much of the advice given in it has been adopted

by the Institution."

   At the annual dinner held in December, Thompson was
supported by Lord Kelvin, Professor David Hughes, Sir

James Crichton Browne, Sir William Roberts Austen, Sir

William White, Sir Henry Roscoe, Professor Perry, and

about 250     members.       The    aged Lord Kelvin proposed
the toast of    " Science,"    and   pointed out the advantages

which electrical engineers had derived from a knowledge

of mathematics. Sir W. Roberts Austen and Sir Henry

Roscoe responded.

   When the year of presidency came to an end Thompson
was succeeded by Professor John Perry, F.R.S., who

enthusiastically carried on the idea of the foreign excursion.

This year the obvious place to visit was Paris, where a

huge International Exhibition was being held. The
American Institution of Electrical Engineers was also con

templating an excursion to France, so the two Institutions

agreed to make it a joint affair. There was some fear on

the part of a few members that the English Institution

would not be received in a friendly manner by the French

owing to our Boer War then going on, which was so un

popular in Europe.

Happily these fears were groundless, for the scientific

men of Europe, gathered in Paris for numerous congresses,

rose above the coldness felt towards Britain by those who

had no international bond.

The President of the American Institution was Professor

Carl Hering, a man very popular with English electrical
engineers. A special steamer was arranged for, and the

journey from London of the two united excursions was a

very lively one. Thompson was accompanied on this

occasion by his eldest daughter Sylvia, as well as by his
wife. Professor Ayrton was accompanied by Mrs. Ayrton,

now an honorary member of the Institution of Electrical

Engineers, the first woman to be admitted, and their two

daughters. The two families had both chosen to stay in
the quieter part of Paris, the Quartier Latin. The joint

meetings of the American and English electricians were
INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 215

held in the Exhibition, where each nation had its special
pavilion erected for such and kindred gatherings.

   The whole of each day was spent in the Exhibition.

Meetings for discussion were held in the mornings, and the
afternoons were devoted to the visiting of the electrical

exhibits under the personal conduction of French, American,

or English engineers. There were various receptions in
the later afternoons, and of course several banquets.

   One of these given by some of the American electrical

engineers was a very lively occasion. In American fashion

the guests collected the signatures of those present by

writing on the back of the menu cards. Professor Perry

had unfortunately been prevented from being present,

and an empty seat marked his absence. In the place

where his signature should have appeared, Thompson

r"aPpriodfleyssodrrewPeorrny'seacGhhomste."nu  a small caricature labelled

                                               It was really unmistakably

like him, and caused great amusement.

  In June 1901 the Annual Excursion of the Institution

was to electrical works in Germany. Thompson and his
wife were again members of the party. Their first halting-
place was Brunswick, then they went on to Berlin, where

they were most hospitably feasted and entertained by

the heads of the great German electrical companies, who
also opened their works to the inspection of the British

engineers.
   After leaving Berlin the excursion party visited Leipzig

and Dresden, and many of them continued the trip into

Saxon Switzerland. Thompson was, however, obliged to
return to his duties in London, and cut short the merely

pleasure part of the excursion.

   In the spring of 1903, the anniversary of the death of
Volta, the Institution visited Northern Italy. The Presi
dent of the year was Mr. Robert K. Gray, one of the most

generous benefactors of the Institution.

   Thompson wrote several letters to his wife, describing
the excursion, as she was unable to accompany him on that

occasion. He went to Como via Zurich, where he spent
three days visiting works in order to get the latest informa
216 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

tion about the progress of dynamo construction for the

new edition of his book. The weather was cold and snowy

in Switzerland, and he contracted a severe chill, which

developed into a mild influenza attack at Como, and much

hindered his enjoyment of the excursion.

He wrote from Como, April 2nd :

  I" reached this place at 2.30 yesterday, and spent the

afternoon on the hill-top above Brunate in the sunshine --
Ia welcome change after - the snowstorms and winds at
Zurich.     gathered blue bell-gentians,           and periwinkles,

and vetches, and primroses, and green           hellebores. It was
Ilovely. In the evening after dinner Poggi looked in :

[Cencio Poggi, Director of the Como Museum], and am
to spend most of to-day with him. The Editor of the
Electrical Engineer is here ; and Blaky writes me that he
                to-morrow, so  trwaeinaryeesgtaetrhdearyin--g ounp.hisSiwr aJyohtno
will be   here    was on the
Wolfe    Barry

Brindisi."                                      "April 4th.

"At 6.30 this evening all our party will arrive, and then
good-bye to much time for writing. The Municipality is
going to send the city band to greet us on our arrival with
musical honours, and will play in the square each evening.
We are also to have the square illuminated in honour of our
presence. Signor Franchi, Sindaco di Camnago has just

called, to talk over the ceremony of Sunday morning, when
we are to put a wreath on Volta's tomb."
                                                                          "April 5th.

   " This is Sunday afternoon, and almost all of our party
have gone up to Brunate, so that the hotel is very quiet.
We had a fine, beautiful warm morning for the drive to the
tomb of Volta. Sindaco and Signora Franchi and Professor
Alessandro Volta all asked after you, and begged to send
their salutations to you. We presented our wreath, and the

stu"deSnptesec(hpeesr  Mr.   Hewett) presented  a bronze shield.   me,
                       were  made by Mr. Gray    as President, by
by Mr. Gavey, and by Mr. Hewett. In reply we had an
admirable speech from Sig. Franchi and another from
Professor Volta. The excursion to the Valtellina to see the
I Ielectrical plant delighted everybody.
                                                did not go, for
Iwas feeling shivery from a chill, caught in Zurich -- think.
ISo stayed in Como, kept warm, and took quinine. To-day
I Iam all right. am going to the Biblioteca to see a copy
INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 217

of Gilbert's De Magnete that they have, and then on to the
Museo Civico, where at 5 o'clock tea is to be given by the

Sin"daGcroa.y makes a perfect leader for the party --does just

the right thing at the right time, and pays the utmost
attention to little details of courtesy. He speaks French
fluently, and Italian a little. To-morrow we go on to
Milan via Varese. There we shall see Senatore Colombo,
who has not yet been with us."'

In Page's Magazine an account was given of the visit
                               to Italy. It
of the Electrical  Engineers                      says, in relation to the
ceremony at the     tomb of   Volta : " Dr.       Silvanus P. Thompson

then delivered an eloquent address in Italian, which was

listened to with rapt  attrtaenntsiloant,ionan"d  was much   appreciated,"
then follows " a free                                        his tribute to
                                                  of it. In

Volta's genius, Thompson said of him :

   " Truly he was more than an inventor : he was a scientist
of the first order, an investigator of great genius, who
accomplished many conquests in many departments of
physical science ; who did many things, but who touched
nothing without adorning it."

   His peroration was fine, and loses by translation :

. " If Italy can boast of the names of Galileo and of Leo

nardo da Vinci, we can also boast in England of Gilbert,
the father of magnetism, of Newton, the creator of natural
philosophical mathematics. You Italians have Volta, we
are proud of Faraday. But neither Galileo nor Newton,
nor Volta, nor Faraday belongs exclusively to one nation.
Great men of such a kind belong to the whole world, and
we pilgrims of science gather once more round the tomb of
Volta, great benefactor of humanity, in order to render our

tribute of reverent knowledge and of universal recognition."

   While in Milan Thompson and his friend, Mr. W. M.
Mordey, managed to find time to spend two evenings enjoying
Italian opera at La Scala.

   The expedition to Paderno to visit the great power-

station, he describes as follows :

   " You will remember Paderno ; first we went over a
big silk-mill electrically driven. We had a marvellous
218 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

a I, fresco lunch in the garden of the old village hotel, then
we drove down,  in ramshackle        brakes, to the   p--laycoeuwhweirlel
dismounted and    walked down          to the canal                        we
                                                                           re
member the old canal of Leonardo da Vinci -- and the
lovely walk all along it through the woods to the power
house at Paderno. The power-house is quite filled now with
its set of machinery -- all by Brown --and looks magnificent.
All our party were delighted with it. Brown himself came
over from Baden for the day to meet us."

" The trip    is over  now,    and   the    party          , "April Ufh.
                                                    is dispersed. We
had a fine excursion to Vizzola yesterday, followed by a
visit (which tired me much) to Tosi's Engineering works at
ILegnano. However, enjoyed the final banquet given by
Ithe Associazione Elettrotecnica Italiana, at which
Inext to Colombo. It was a great success.                                  sat

                                                      made a speech
I Iin honour

nations.
 of the         two Associations, and of eternal amity of
                the best have made in Italian, and felt
It was
quite at ease, very differently indeed from the time four

years ago."

As he was very weary and feeling far from well, Thompson

decided to spend Easter quietly at Varese. He wrote

from there :

" This is a most lovely place, just between the extremities
of the Lakes of Maggiore and Lugano. The view of the
Monte Rosa range across the little Varese lake was most
exquisite. My room on the second floor looks out over a
lovely garden with pines and cypresses and palms and
lemon-trees, then the tranquil little lake, and again beyond

are low purple hills, above which lies a magnificent pano

of snow summits.
 has done me a world
Iram" aIt                      of    good   to  come  to    this  tranquil

spot to rest. have spent all Sunday quietly sitting in the
garden, basking in the blazing sun. This is the first really
Ihot day that we have had.
                                     have spent my time reading
IDante : the first time have even tried to read him in the
Ioriginal --and he is quite easy to follow.
                                                    have come across

many interesting passages, including the one which Tennyson
alluded to. ' This is truth the poet sings, that a sorrow's
crown of sorrow is remembering happier things ' :

             " ' Ed ella a me, " Nessun maggior     dolore
              Che ricordarsi
              Mollu miseria.'  "del  tempo  felice
  INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 219

  I" return on Wednesday for one night to Milan, whence
I shall go to visit the electrical works at Val Tellina which
I missed. Then onto Paris to meet M. Boistel" (Trans

lator of his Dynamo and Electromagnet).

  In Paris he attended a meeting of the Societ6 de Physique,

and visited M. Curie's laboratory for some experiments on

radium.

  In 1907 Thompson was asked to be President of the

Engineering Section at the British Association Meeting at
Leicester. His address consisted, largely, of a plea for a

knowledge of pure science as the best equipment of the
engineer. He also gave a resum6 of what was being done
at that time for the education of the young engineer,

rejoicing at the gradual disappearance of the premium system.

   " In the engineering industry," he said, " Great Britain

is slowly following the lead taken in America, Germany,
and Switzerland in the recognition afforded to the value of
a systematic college training for the young engineer, though
there is still much apathy and even distrust shown in certain
quarters. Yet there is no doubt that the stress of com
petition, particularly of competition against the industry
and the enterprise of the trained men of other nations, is
gradually forcing to the front the sentiment in favour of a
rational and scientific training for the manufacturer and
for the engineer. As William Watson, in his ' Ode on the
Coronation,' wrote in a yet wider sense of England :

   'For now the day is unto them that know,
    And not thenceforth she stumbles on the prize ;
    And yonder march the nations full of eyes.
    Already is doom a-spinning. . . .'

"  Truly the day is ' unto   them that know.'        must  be
"  Knowledge, perfected     by study and training,

infused into the experience gained by practice : else we
compete at very unequal odds with the systematically

tra"inIefdthweoriknesrtsituotfioontsh,erscnhaotoiolsn,s.col.leg. e.s, where engineering
training is offered are but rightly developed and co-ordinated
the engineers of Great Britain need have no fear as to
holding their own against the trained engineers of other

countries. It is for the employers to make use of these
220 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

institutions, and to show that sympathetic interest in their
efficiency which is essential to their full success."

Of his work in the section Thompson wrote to his wife,

who was in Switzerland :

I" For the last two days, have been very full up --tied
to the chair. The meeting of the Association has been a
great success ; all the local arrangements have been wonder
fully perfect, thanks, mainly, to Mr. Colson's excellent
powers of organising. Duddell's lecture on the Arc and
ISpark in Wireless Telegraphy was a most brilliant one.

Lodge proposed, and seconded, the vote of thanks. Sir
I IDavid Gill's presidency is the right thing in the right
place.    doubt whether can get away on Tuesday from
Leicester. The work of the section is going to run over to
I IWednesday, and one of my Vice- Presidents has gone already.
   wish were back with you and the girls at Wengen."

During this year Lord Kelvin had been President of the

Institution of Electrical Engineers for the third time,
having held the office in 1874 and 1889. On December 17th

he died at Largs, aged eighty-three. In memory of his

work, and of his connection with the Institution of Electrical
Engineers, a Kelvin Lecture was founded, and Thompson

was asked to give the first.

  It was delivered on April 30th, 1908, and printed in the

Journal of the Institution, and will be referred to in a later

chapter.

In 1912 Thompson gave to the members of the Institution

another of his important contributions to the science oi

Electrical Engineering. This was on the occasion of the

Annual Summer Excursion, which that year was held in

Scotland. In Glasgow, where there was already a strong

local branch of the Institution, meetings were held at the

Technical College and the Glasgow University.     on  " The

  In the latter building Thompson gave a lecture
Magnetism of Permanent Magnets." In a report of the

meeting in Electricity of June 21st we read :

   " After alluding to Lord Kelvin's work on this subject
he proceeded to outline the advances that had taken place
             INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES                             *  221

                                                                        t

during the last quarter of a century, and the possibilities of
new alloys in the near future. Professor Thompson's lecture
was one of the most interesting papers of the Convention.
Delivered almost without notes (they consisted of a few
-words written on cards, which he held in his hand) and with
a fluency and charm which few lecturers possess, he made
the subject almost absorbingly interesting.

   He spoke for an hour and a half to an audience which
contained some laymen and many ladies ; and the address
was delivered with such perfection of phrasing that it
could have been reprinted verbatim without showing any
looseness or redundancy. The attention of the whole
audience was held without intermission ; and the applause
at the finish was more like the usual appreciation of a
political oration than a tribute to an exposition of so dry

and obscure a subject as permanent magnetism."

For some years Thompson was on the Committee of the

Institution  f"orNodmefeinnincglatuarned  "  deciding upon   the   important
question of                                    of which Mr.  A.   P. Trotter

was chairman. This committee worked hard, and spent

hours over lists of definitions, sifting all the numerous

foreign lists.
   The beginnings of the nomenclature of electrical units

dated back to a paper read at the British Association in

1861 by Sir Charles Bright and Mr. Latimer Clark. This
led to the formation of a Committee on Electrical Standards,

which in the course of its six years' labour fixed many of

the important names, such as ohm, volt, coulomb, etc.

  In 1881-2 the Paris Electrical Exhibition drew large

numbers of electricians to that city, and the first really

International Congress of Electricity was held. It was

formed of a body of delegates sent, officially either by
Government departments or by scientific institutions. The
foreign Vice-Presidents were Lord Kelvin, Signor Govi, and

Professor von Helmholtz. -Thompson was present, .but was

not a delegate. At this Congress the name of the unit weber

was changed to that of ampere, on the proposal of Von

Helmholtz. The Second International Congress, again held

in Paris, took place in the year 1 889, when there was again

an Exhibition going on. Thompson and his wife were both
222 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

present, and the President on this occasion was Mr. Thomas
Alva Edison, then in the zenith of his fame.

  In 1891 the International Congress met at Frankfort,

an account of which has already been given. Thompson
was present in Chicago in 1893, in Como in 1899, Paris 1900,
but not at St. Louis in 1904, when a new departure was
made for securing the co-operation of the Electrotechnical
Societies of the world, and the Institution of Electrical

Engineers was asked to undertake the inauguration of the
organisation of an Electrotechnical Commission. The
delegates of fourteen countries were called together in
1906 under the presidency of Mr. Alexander Siemens. Lord
Kelvin was elected first President of the International
Electrotechnical Commission. Each country which had an
Electrotechnical Committee had the right to send delegates,
and each country was represented equally, and had equal
voting power. The first Commission met in London in
1908. Lord Kelvin had died in 1907, and M. Mascart of
Paris, who should have succeeded him as President, also
passed away in August 1908, so Professor Elihu Thomson

was chosen. In 1910 an unofficial conference was held in
Brussels under the presidency of Professor Eric Gerard of

Liege, and a small committee was formed to discuss inter
national nomenclature, and to meet between the times of

holding the International Congresses. Thompson was
elected to represent the British Committee, and the first
small committee was held at Cologne in May 1911. Dr.
Budde came from Berlin, M. Brunswick from Paris,
Thompson from England, and M. Eric Gerard from
Belgium took the chair. The agreements made then were

subsequently confirmed at the next meeting of the whole
commission at Turin in September of the same year.

  In Turin 1911 a Universal Exhibition celebrating the
first fifty years of Italian autonomy was being held, also

the International Congress, at which nineteen countries
were represented. Thompson and his wife went there in

September, and he was again appointed to serve on a Jury

for scientific instruments in the Exhibition. The Congress
was organised by the Italian Electrical Society, and was
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES  223

supported by the International Electrical Commission.

The membership was about five hundred, including Govern

ment delegates and those from technical societies. Pro
fessor Elihu Thomson, the President of the Commission,
was there, and the Italian Committee spared no pains in

making the meeting a great success, and also one of social

pleasure. Thompson contributed a paper in Italian (de
scribed as lucido in the local press) on Rotating Transformers.

It was discussed in Italian and German, the proceedings

being interpreted into French for the benefit of those who

did not understand the former languages. Many old

acquaintances of the Thompsons were present, among them
the venerable Professor Pacinotti and his wife.

   At a meeting held in honour of Pacinotti, when a testi

monial was presented to him, Thompson made a speech in

Italian. It had been due to Thompson's drawing attention

in his Dynamo Electric Machinery to the invention of the

earliest form of ring dynamo by Professor Pacinotti that

the fame of the latter had spread throughout Europe, and
in his reply speech the old man acknowledged this most

touchingly.
   Many of the delegates stayed in the same hotel, and

during the blazing hot days of that September frequent
informal discussions went on in the shady courtyard, some
of these lasting on into midnight or early morning hours.
The Congress will be remembered for the great cordiality
which prevailed among all the delegates.

   Not long after the Turin Congress the honoured Professor

Pacinotti passed away at Pisa, where he had lived and

worked for many years. Thompson had first become ac
quainted with him at Pisa in 1892, when he called on him

at the University. In his notes on the visit he says :

   " Professor Ant. Pacinotti lectures in his nonchalant
style to nine youths. He has, besides ordinary physics, to
lecture on agricultural physics and hydraulics twice a week.
No laboratory work either of professor or students visible.
He showed me his original machine of 1860, also his notes

made 1858-9, wherein the idea of the ring is developed, the
notion being commutation without disjunction. Sketches
224 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

show several devices for having two circuits (or more) from
brush to brush, of which only one at one time broken.
Original
contacts.  machine   runs on    cone-pivots, and has wheel-
                    very well
            It ran             with one bichromate cell. He
showed me Note D in De la Rive's Electricity, which he
said had set him speculating in 1858. He was then but
just a student helping his father."

   Having always kept up his interest in Pacinotti and his
work, Thompson willingly undertook the translation of his
Description of a Small Electromagnetic Machine of Dr. Antonio
Pacinotti (extract from the Nuovo Cimento of June 1864),
which was bound up with the French translation of Professor
Paul Janet, the German of Professor Gisbert Kapp, the
Latin of Signor P. Rasi.

  In 1912 Thompson read a paper to the Institution of

Electrical Engineers entitled, "The Aims and Work of the
International Electrotechnical Commission," in which he
gave an account of what had been done by and of what
was still to be accomplished. By that date twenty-two
countries were affiliated to the movement. He closed his
paper with these words

   " Last, but by no means least, these regular international
gatherings, during which national prejudices are laid aside,
and at which many lasting friendships are made, between
electricians of different nationalities, must undoubtedly
be not unimportant factor in furthering the peace of the
world."
a

                                                           :

                                                                it,

   Professor Elihu Thomson was succeeded as President of
the Electrotechnical Commission by Professor Budde of
Berlin, the President also of the small committee which

met at Cologne in the spring of 1913. Thompson was again
appointed delegate of the British Government for the second
plenary meeting to be held at Berlin in September of that
year. Colonel Crompton wrote to him in August
I
                  I
                                    I

                                                                    it

                                                                                     is :
" hope you will be able to come to the Berlin meeting.
You know how much count upon you.                                                          hard
                                     know
   INSTITUTION OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 225

to interfere with your holidays, but you are such a good
international diplomatist that your presence will be of
great value to us in trying to get forward."

   During that summer Thompson was spending his holiday
in the Alps with his wife and daughter Dorothea, and was
very loath to tear himself away. However, his interest
in the international movement was so strong that again,
and for the last time he took part in one of these great
gatherings of electricians. During 1914 he again revisited
Germany to attend the small committee of five delegates
under the Presidency of Dr. Budde of Berlin, who soon
after retired from office. Then the outbreak of the great
European War put an end to all international gatherings.

        15
                           CHAPTER XI

    THE GILBERT CLUB : THE LIBRARY AND LITEBABY
                                     EXCURSIONS

             " Gilbert shall live till loadstones cease to draw,
                 Or British fleets the boundless ocean awe."

So sang Dryden, commemorating the great Elizabethan
doctor, who in his day had been the subject of two savage
couplets from the pen of the Oxford epigrammatist, John
Owen (Andoenus), and of whom it was written in the

History of the Worthies of England (endeavoured by Thomas
Fuller, D.D., London, 1662):

    " Such was his loyalty to the Queen, that, as if unwilling
to                         dyed in the same year with her in 1603. .
    "suMrvaihvoem, ehte's   tomb at Mecha is said strangely to hang             ..

                                                                              up,

attracted by some invisible Loadestone ; but the Memory
of this Doctor will never fall to the Ground, which his incom
parable book De Magnete will support to Eternity."

    Despite the brilliancy of the fame accorded to Dr. William

Gilbert by his contemporaries, not only in England, but

throughout the then civilised world, his work so great and

so original, was strangely lost sight of in subsequent genera

tions. Silvanus Thompson did his best to revive the fame

of  "the father            of electrical  scwiehnoce","buainltd  loved to do  honour
to                           of the man                          up a whole   experi
    the memory

mental magnetic philosophy on a truly scientific basis, in

place of the vague and wild speculations which had pre

viously been accepted," and who "in an age when the

fantastic philosophies of the schoolmen still prevailed . . .

calmly worked out the inductive method of reasoning from

the known to the unknown, trying his arguments by the

touchstone of experiment."

                                          226
                  THE GILBERT CLUB                                       227

Undoubtedly Thompson himself was profoundly influenced

by the reading of Gilbert's work. His Elementary Lessons

from the          first page onwards contained     many                  references to
Gilbert's         discoveries, and the popular   lecture,                " The Earth

a Great Magnet," which he delivered in a number of cities
up and down the country in the early eighties, dealt with

Gilbert's greatest discovery.

  In 1882 he became possessed of a copy of that treasured

rarity : De Magnete Magneticisque Corporibus, et de Magno
Magnete Tellure ; Physiologia noua plurimis <Se argumentis,
d> experiments demonstrate,. Guelielmi Gilberti ; Colces-

trensis Medici Londinensis. Londini Excudebat Petrua

Short Anno MDC.

   Ultimately he possessed five copies variously bound, one
with the cross of the Inquisition burnt blackly into the
edges of its leaves. The " library " copy, besides being

tuunruesu"aWlly.  large and clean, bore on  the  title-page the signa
                  Barlow," suggesting that  the  volume was perhaps

the presentation copy to Gilbert's contemporary and

intimate friend, the venerable Archdeacon of Salisbury,

author of Magneticall Advertisements, London, 1616, which

work, together with his other writings, found a place in the

unique collection illustrative of the history of magnetism

and electricity, which Thompson gradually amassed, and
in which he took increasingly eager delight as years went on.

   Enthusiasm is infectious. Amongst others devoted to

the study of this worthy was Thompson's friend Mr. Conrad

W. Cooke, who in 1889 wrote an article in Engineering

entitled          "William    "GailnbeHrtonoofrarCyolcSheecsretetar.r"y    The author
described                                                                of the Gilbert
                  himself as

Club." He quoted from Barlow's Magneticall Advertise

ments :

   " Many of our nation, both Gentlemen and others of
excellent witts and louers of these knowledges, not able to
read Doctor Gilbert's booke in Latin haue bin (euer since
the first publishing thereof) exceeding desirous to haue it
translated into English, but hitherto no man hath done
neither as yet goeth about any such matter, whereof one
principal! cause that there are very few that understands
                  is
                                                                                  it,
228 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

his booke, because they haue not load-stones of diuers formes,
bu"t               round ones.
      especially  cause may be  ..   .     there  are  diuers  wordes

      A second                  for  that

of art in the whole course of this booke proper to this subject,
and fitt to the explication of his figures and diagrammes
which cannot be understood, but by the helpe of the Mathe-
maticks and good trauelling in the Magneticall practice."

    Thus, though already desired in Gilbert's life-time, no
 translation into any modern language was made, and the
 book itself became very scarce, never being reprinted after

 1638. Cooke's article continued :

     " We are happy to say, however, that this reproach upon
 our scientific patriotism will very soon be removed. . . . We
 are approaching the tercentenary of De Magnete, and, with
 the object of celebrating the event, a Gilbert Club has
 recently been formed, having for its first President Sir

 Wi"lliIanmacTchoordmasnocne. with the first and principal object of the

club, we are glad to state that the translation of De Magnete
is well in hand, and will be printed and ' got up ' in such a
manner as to be as like the original in appearance as it can
 be made ; it will, in fact, be a facsimile reprint in every
 thing, except the language in which it is reproduced."

  It was out of the interest of these two friends Cooke and

 Thompson that the Gilbert Club arose. They gathered
together a small group of scientific men, including Mr.
Latimer Clark, F.R.S., who possessed what was then the
finest English collection of electrical books. Having the
support of a number of influential names, including im
portant officials of the Royal College of Surgeons, the Royal
Institution, the Institution of Electrical Engineers, and
The Physical Society, they were permitted to hold the
Inaugural Meeting of the Club at the Society of Arts on
November 28th, 1899, and henceforth the success of the
publication of the translation of the De Magnete was assured.

   They were successful in enlisting the support of several
prominent citizens of Colchester, Gilbert's birth-place, one
of whom, Mr. Henry Laver, F.S.A., became Treasurer to the
Club.
                                THE GILBERT CLUB                                                  229

The two enthusiasts became honorary secretaries, together

with Professor Meldola, who shared also this enthusiasm of

his colleague and friend ; and in later years they were
assisted by Mr. H. B. Wheatley, F.S.A., the Bibliographer,

the possessor of many books, and a fellow-member of the

"Sette of Odd Volumes."

The actual labour of translation of different sections of

the book was carried out by ten different persons, on two
of whom, the Rev. W. C. Howell, M.A., and Thompson,

the work of revision and correction for the press mainly

devolved.

   The Gilbert Club was in no sense a social body ; it never
met as a whole ; most of its activities were carried on in

writing in a casual manner, as may be gathered from the

following letter :                          " ATHENA"ESUeMpteCmLUbeBr, 21«(,.1891.

Iyou" rMliYt"tleDEamAmRemBvoReirOryToHfmESRutcuhrSgIeLoVobnAl.NigUeSdI,t  to  you   for sending    me
                                                                          is  very  interesting,  and

Ipar"ticualmarlyquisteo  to me.     in the  Day                           of Judgment    there will
                         sure that

arise a perfect cloud of witnesses to give expert evidence
on your behalf of good things you, in your life-time, have
Idone for them, whether before or after they had left this
world.     expect, when this combustible shall have put on

incombustibility (gazing through a powerful asbestos
telescope with lenses of alum), to see a great procession
going forth to meet you, to present their gifts, Gilbert leading
the mighty throng with his Terrella, Reis carrying a bung
covered over with the skin of a German sausage, Sturgeon
with an electro-magnet, Koenig with a tuning-fork, while
S. A. Varley ' will be running up and down with a six-
shooter, complaining that the range is too great to get
I Iat "yoTuw.o things think will interest you ; first, that have
D18r5. 0)Le"igPhr'essecnotpeyd  of Sturgeon's Scientific                      Researches (Bury,
                                                                              in token
                                to John Leigh, Esq.,                                     of sincere
friendship and esteem by the Author."                                          It is an  edition de

luxe printed on thick paper, a wide margin, and very hand
somely bound in russia with the inscription on the side.

                                1 Sea Chap. XIV, page 292.
230 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

Second, that there is one slight error in your memoir, namely,

Ithat Sturgeon's Reprint of Barlow was in facsimile ; am

writing with the little book before me, and it is rather com
monly got up, and, with the exception of the letter from
tGoil"bdeWorthsaottomeiBsthahirnalogpwpe,fnoiernvgtehnetothsGuebilssbcpereirbltli'ensrgsb. oisokImt?owdWeilrlenissroeeodan.llyb. eo.utg.whot

years since our inaugural meeting, and twenty months since

the last meeting, and some of the subscribers have already

pa"idHtohweirdosumbastctreiprstiosntsa.nd ? and when shall we have some

thi"ngWtitohshmoyw    ?   ki"ndEvreergavrdesrytosi"nycCoeuOreNalRynAdDyoMuWrrss..,  Thompson,
                                                                                    COOKE."
                    very

Though the Club had not in 1916 wound up its affairs by

disposing of the few remaining copies of the translation, its

life virtually ceased when the volumes were distributed to

the subscribers in 1900, just three centuries after the publica

tion of the original.

The publication was anticipated by some years by the

appearance in New York in 1893 of a translation by Dr. P.

Fleury Mottelay. This was, however, but a small volume,

and, though the work of a keen bibliographer of electrical

and magnetical sciences, lacked the charm of the luxurious

facsimile edition.

While editing the De Magnete Thompson became im

mensely interested in critical discussion of the texts, and

in the innumerable allusions to men and things, concerning

which he tracked down further information, sought out

quotations from the authorities referred to by Gilbert, and

published his researches in a companion volume to the

translation, under the title,  Notes on the De Magnete of Dr.

William Gilbert. It was in     folio,  asnimd ilsaorlycou"ldgobte                    bound in
                               very                                                 up," and,
with the translation, being

it,

                                              :

                                              of
                                                                  of

                                                                                         a
like a limited edition privately printed.

  In the course of these ten years of work at the translation

Thompson's interest betrayed itself more or less publicly

in various directions first in the appearance of small
XXII.volume, Opuaculum No.
                                       the Sette Odd Volumes,
        THE GILBERT CLUB                                                                    231

Gilbert of Colchester : an Elizabethan Megnetizer, issued to
the members of the Sette by their Brother Magnetizer in

1890. Then that summer, to arouse local interest, he

delivered at Colchester, to The Essex Field Club, a lecture,
                                                                     on " Essex     Worthies "
pinubTlihsheedEssinex18N91atausraolniset,of"thWeilaliratimcles      Gilbert, of
                                                                                    Colchester,

Founder of the Science of Electricity," illustrated with cuts

and a portrait, of which more anon.                                                         Sir

  In 1899 he was to lecture at the Royal Institution.

Frederick Bramwell wrote :

      I" am very glad that you fall in with our suggestion of
giving a course of two Lectures, in the forthcoming After-
Ea"ste' Tr hSeesMsiyotnh. s of the Magnet,' in these days of allitera
tio"n,     no doubt, a taking title.
        see your difficulty as regards the Volta Centenary
      I
             is,

               aI
                                        ;
                                                       .
                                                    '
                          I
                                                                 '
at Como, and believe that at the present time could shift
                                                                                    I

your two days . . but certainly do not wish to lose the
valuable services of a live electrician of your standing, for
the sake of dead one, born 100 years ago. . .
                                                                                    of
                                                                                        ."
   Thompson duly lectured on The Myths the Magnet                                                ;
   had taken a Gilbert to dispel such beliefs as, e.g., that
is if it
                                                              ;the magnet refuses to act in the presence of a diamond, or
   touched with garlic or that the variation of the compass

   due to imaginary lodestone-mountains like those described
in the Arabian Nights.

   Thompson spent a great deal of time hunting up traces
of the pedigree and arms of the Gilbert family at the College
of Arms, and searching for portraits, one of which he, at a
later period, discovered and purchased from an antiquarian
bookseller in London, a small full-length oil-painting on a
wooden panel he believed to be a genuine portrait, and
found no other. He made enquiries at Oxford for the

Bodleian portrait of which there existed prints which he
himself used to illustrate his booklets but the painting
itself disappeared some hundred years ago, removed on
account of its dilapidated condition, and the then general
indifference to its subject.
        ;

                           it

                                                                                 ;
232 LIFE OF STLVANUS THOMPSON

  In 1903 the tercentenary of the death of Queen Elizabeth
was celebrated in London. In March the Royal Geographical

Society held an exhibition illustrating the progress of

geographical   enterprise    inofhe"r   reign ; to this Thompson
contributed   a collection
                                       Gilbertiana." At a public

gathering   discourses were read by            distinguished  "  men of
learning ;  Thompson gave a short              address on        William

Gilbert and   Terrestrial Magnetism            in the Time    of Queen
Elizabeth "                                     printed as a  booklet),
wherein he    (which   was   a"fteTrowartdhse  names of the   men who
              claimed  that

made great the age of Queen Elizabeth, who added lustre
to the England over which she ruled, and made it famous

in foreign discovery, in sea-craft, in literature, in poetry, and

in drama, must be joined that of the man who equally added

lustre in science."

Colchester celebrated the Gilberd Centenary with full

civic honours. Thompson was invited to the city in

September 1903, and, under the Presidency of Sir Mount-

stuart Grant Duff, F.R.S., G.C.S.I., attended by the Mayor

and Council in state, delivered a lecture in the ancient Moot

Hall, illustrating his discourse by lantern slides, and by

repetitions of some of Gilberd's experiments.

The electricians of the country, as represented by the

Institution of Electrical Engineers, did formal honour to

the "Father" of their science on December 10th, 1903,

three hundred years after his death. The Institution had

raised a fund to purchase a picture painted some years
earlier by Mr. A. Acland Hunt ; at the suggestion of Sir

Benjamin Richardson he had depicted Dr. Gilberd in the

act of showing his electrical experiments to Queen Elizabeth

with Drake and Raleigh and her Court ; this picture was

now presented to the   Mayor  Hfaorll,thteheBreoro"utgoh  of Colchester,
to be placed in the    Town                               maintain and

extend the fame and memory of Gilberd." The following

summer the Council of the Institution paid a visit to the

borough to be present at the unveiling of the picture.

Thompson was the prime mover in all these arrangements,

and was most generously supported by the President for the

year, Mr. R. K. Gray. From an absentee member of the
THE GILBERT CLUB                                          233

Institution of Electrical Engineers he received the following
letter :

I" should not have liked to have been left out in the cold,
so please accept my thanks for having given me the oppor

Itun"itAyndtonsotwandletwmitehothers.youmycongratulations on the
tender
                                know it has been to you a work
success of your efforts.
of great love, and that nothing will have given you greater
pleasure than in thus honouring the name of one to whom
the science owes so much, and who, but for yourself, would

scarcely have been known."

   All that Gilbert had left in print concerning his researches

was contained in a single chapter in the second book of his

De Magnete. This, reprinted from the version prepared by
the Gilbert Club, with notes added by Thompson, and a
reproduction of the Colchester picture, was issued for the
Institution of Electrical Engineers as a booklet, beautifully
printed at the Chiswick Press, which Thompson employed
for all this work.

   His Gilbert : Physician, also privately printed the same
year, was a brief history of the doctor's professional life,
compiled from facts obtained by literary researches, and
supplementary to the already existing, but scanty bio

graphical notices. Thompson had searched the records of
the Royal College of Physicians determined that no trace
should escape his experienced eye, and in his researches
had interested several members, who took pleasure in the
celebrations, and appreciated the little volume.

   Nowhere were these literary achievements of Thompson

more appreciated than in the circle of "Ye Sette of Odd

Volumes." Witness this letter of Dr. John Todhunter :

                                                               "Jaiaary 4rt, 1934
   "DKA"RBeBstROw. isShIeLsVAfNoUrSt,he New Year and many than
for your Christmas Card --very artistic in design as usual.

IThanks also for your very dainty pamphlet on Gilbert of

Colchester, which both Mrs. Todhunter and have read
with very great interest. You have managed to put your
234 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

materials together in a manner that rounds off the too scanty
story of his life, while giving peeps of himself and his sur
roundings which give a pleasant fillip to the imagination of
the reader to bring from the ' dark backward and abysm
Iof- time ' a ghostly picture of the worthy doctor in his habit
as he lived.  like his indignant support of the experimental

method in science."

Everything about Gilbert interested Thompson. The

Jubilee Meeting of the Essex Archaeological Society, happen

ing in the    summer    of  "19T0h3e,  was held in  Colchester, and  at
it he read    a paper  on              Family and   Arms of Gilbert  of

Colchester," showing a surprising familiarity with wills and

title-deeds, heraldry and coats of arms.

At the Oyster Feast at Colchester, about a year later, the

Tercentenary was still being celebrated, the outgoing Mayor.

Mr. Ernest H. Barritt, presenting to the company a souvenir
pamphlet, embodying reproductions of Acland Hunt's

picture, the portrait, illustrations from the De Magnete, and
other features of interest. Thompson, who by this time

must almost have become a familiar civic figure, was present

as the guest of the Mayor, and         shared       with    Sir Norman
Lockyer the honour of responding       to the       toast,  " Science."

At Oxford Thompson had stirred up a little dust in search

for Gilbert's portrait. At Cambridge, Gilbert's University,

there appeared to be no visible trace of him, though he had
been for some months Senior Bursar at St. John's College

before entering upon his foreign travels, and his studies in

Italy. Before 1898 not a vestige of Gilbert's handwriting

was known to exist ; but, when a signature was unearthed
at the Record Office, it was reproduced and sent by Thomp

son to various libraries where papers, bearing              : it,  might

be supposed to exist. Four such were subsequently found

in the books of St. John's College, and Thompson did
not delay going to Cambridge to see them. At the

British Museum there was much material in which the

mention of his name might possibly be found. Thompson

wrote to make inquiries about the Hardwicke Papers, and

was informed by Mr. F. G. Kenyon, of the British Museum,

who was his correspondent in these matters, that
                  THE GILBERT CLUB                                    235

    " There are quantities of State and private papers here
of the Elizabethan period, especially in the Cotton and

Lansdowne collections ; but to search through all of them,
on the chance of finding William Gilbert's name, would take
up more time than the results would be likely to justify.
On the other hand, if one has his name in mind, one may
light upon it while searching for other things. His name
occurs sometimes in the index to the Domestic State Papers,
published by the Record Office ; but the mentions of him

do  "  not  seem  to be important. . . .
       We   have  the drawing by Camden
                                          of Queen Elizabeth's
funeral procession, together with a coloured enlargement of
it recently left to the Museum by Baron Ferdinand Roths

child. We have just been putting both on view in one of

the show-cases, as being of special interest at the present
time. Gilbert does not, however, appear in them, and, as
the figures are clearly not portraits, it would not help much
if he did. There is one group entitled ' clerks of parliament

and doctors of medicine,' which may contain him, but the
                  not given.
                  across any
I Iind"ivIifduasl honualmd escomaree                                  will
                               mention    of                 Gilbert

let you know."

   Thompson possessed himself of a copy of this " Procession,"
and used to point to one figure in the group of physicians as

being remarkably like the portrait of Dr. Gilbert.
   He was very frequently in the reading-room of the

British Museum, comparing the library copy with his own
latest acquisition, or with an entry in some catalogue of

rare books, of which multitudes reached him from all quar

ters of the    globe, as well   as from  wTaresgaanski"s   and   Quaritch
of London.       Mr. Bernard   Quaritch                   Odd   Volume,"

and took personal interest in Brother Magnetizer's library.

    Latimer Clark's collection of books was placed at his

disposal :

    I" DEA" R  SILVANUS THOMPSON,        library          a      May 1893.
               have looked out in my
                                                             list of works

I Iprior to 1 600, which treat of the magnet and lodestone, and
   have put a tick to those which think worth looking at.
They are unfortunately rather numerous, but they are all in

Imy own room, and very easily referred to, and have
236 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

indicated on the cover the pages at which the notices are to
be found, so that a glance at         them would chow you                what
there is of interest in them.                                            hour
                                      It would take you an
            to glance
or  "twIno  addition    at  the whole of  them.
                       to   those on the  list there
                                                      are  some  others

Iwh"ich   are   named  in   the printed pamphlet enclosed.
         am    always  at   your disposition, "etLcA.TTMER CLARK."

   Amongst other Elizabethan collections which Thompson
searched was that of the Cecils ; by permission of Lord
Salisbury, he was allowed access to certain papers in the
Library at Hatfield House to which he had some clue, and
where he thoroughly enjoyed his expedition and found
some reward for his labours.

   His opportunity to make more of his work known in London

came to him shortly before the Tercentenary, when he was
invited to give a course of two Saturday afternoon lectures

at the Royal Institution. He wrote to Sir William Crookes :

    " MR. Y            writes me that you suggest as a title for
Imy two lectures ' Science in the Days of Shakespear. ' But

why drag in Shakespear ? shall be expected to discourse
Ion the Botany, Astronomy, and Alchemy of the Shakes
pearean plays --and that is outside my ambit.                    don't
Iobject to ' Magnetism in the Days of Queen Elizabeth ' ;

but should give a slight preference to something such as
the"  following
      'The De    :          and  its  Author.

                 Magnete

    "'(i) The Book.
I"'"I(fii)yoTuhewoMualdn.'accept the former,
                                               should be satisfied ;
Ibut rather wanted the second of the two lectures to be
Idevoted particularly to some personal account of Dr. Gilbert.
   have unearthed a good deal about him in the last two

Iyea"rs. am off to Italy to-morrow night : please reply to
IHotel Bauer-au-lac, Zurich, where shall be on Sunday.
[An" Pe.xSc.u--rsiTohnatwiRthadthiuemI.Es.hEo.u]ld have a + temperature
1J deg. centig. above surroundings is most inexplicable.                 oIf
always expected it would have a slight minus temperature
to account for energy flowing into it from the environment,
                     THE GILBERT CLUB                                 237

and so keep up its activity in emitting radiations.                 It is
most marvellous -- if substantiated."

Sir William replied :

"    MY"  DEAR SlLVANUS,
          Certainly, we would
                                    not     on    any account  ask  you

Ito lecture under a title to which you have the least objection.
   have at once adopted your proposal, and will announce

Ithe"lectures. . .  .           to  pieces  by  wild  newspaper     men,
         am being
                    torn
I Ieach with a sillier question than the other. ' Yesterday
   had a succession aU day long ! Fortunately was out
most of the time. Also -I am having applications from

amateur chemists in the country, asking for the loan of a
          two of Radium.
          you will enjoy
I Igra"mmehopoer
                                    this    fine  weather  abroad.

suppose you are staying over Easter."

beTinhgom"phseolnpfuflou" ndin  a good many people who         enjoyed
                                his hunts. His book-loving     friends,

many of whom caught something of his interest in Gilbert,
wrote to him of any traces or clues they lit upon. One, a

biographer of Galileo, wrote from Italy of bis inquiries

and researches among the Galileo relics, and the archives of

Florence, Padua, and Venice for the papers of Gilbert's

friends, Fra Paolo Sarpi and Giovanni Francesco Sagredo.

It was clear from the De Magnete that Gilbert had been very

familiar with Italian science, and was himself as well known

to them as hia work, of which Galileo wrote in high praise.

When in Italy with the Institution of Electrical Engineers,

Thompson found time to explore the MSS. of the Ambrosiana

at Milan, and on his way home saw the Perigrinus at Paris

in the Bibliotheque Nationale, and when, in 1912, he found

himself again in Florence, he spent a good deal of time in

the Medici library pursuing the early history of magnetism.

  In Germany Gilbert had found an admirer in Gustav

Hellmann, whose bibliographical notes were published in

America ; with him Thompson kept in touch in this interest
for over twenty years, the Hand List of his Library sent to

Berlin in July 1914 being the last link in their friendship.
240 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

tius Valgrisi in Venice, and his successor Felici Valgrisi,
Iwho used a serpent mark, described their books as being
printed, or issued, dal segno d'Erasmo.                               never could fathom

Ithis collection, which was unintelligible. Could you refer
me to your authority -- not that doubt for
                  ?I                                                                  abun
                                                            it,
                                                                  if

                                                                  it

                                                                                is
dantly clear --for the fact that Erasmus adopted this device
for his Waffen    want to know the year, and, possible, his

reasons    for    th"isBcehlioeivcee".

                                        me,    most  sincerely,

                                        Yours  "SiLvs. P. THOMPSON."

                                                                      "  " EASTBODRNE,
                                                                         April Sth, 1907.

    DEAR"  SILVANUS THOMPSON,                        on               Monday  next for  one
I           propose to come to town
night to search once more in the B.M. reading-roomI
before the bees and drones there are expelled from that

hive at the end of the week, and compelled to supplicate
for desks in other parts of the building. Among other things
    want to settle the question which you have vexed and
ventilated; of the serpent on the tau
                                                                      want to get out all
                  I

                         is

                                            it

                                      is ;I

                                                                      a
the first editions can of Melanchthon and Erasmus, and see

whether the theory correct that                          only printer's mark,

and not the heraldic device of either of them. Could you
spare an hour or two in this holiday season, on Monday
afternoon, to share in the search Your experience and
                  I
                        I

                                                            ?
                                                                   !
interest in the subject would, confess, be of much advantage
to me and perhaps might be fortunate enough to hear
    I pay the same compliment to me
yo"u           ;observe by a letter in The Times                      some days  ago  that

         I
you are again being put up for election by Convocation to the
...Senate. sincerely hope that you have been already elected,

or will soon be so. " Yours ever sincerely,

                                   "T. BAILEY SATTNDERS."

       day or two later was announced that at an election
at the Athenaeum Club, under Rule by which every year
a few persons distinguished in Art, Literature, Science, or
Public Service are specially elected members, Silvanus P.
Thompson was one of the three to secure that greatly prized

honour.
A                 it

                                                 2,
                     THE GILBERT CLUB                                   241

                                                 "April Wth, 1907.

   "DEA"RThBeAIbLrEaYzenSASU--NDpE--RST,, that is for the moment my
alter ego, and not ' il segno d'Erasmo ' -- feels quite three
digits added to his stature at the congratulations that have
Ibeen pouring in upon him. Amongst them, yours, buon
amico mio.           hope not long hence to fraternise with you
                                                  but at the sign of the
aOgwalin--, nnoont  at the sign of   Erasmus,    to say. [The head of
                    invita Minerva,   that is

Min"eNrvoaw  is the   crest of  the Athenaeum Club.]           '  as    to
              you    ask me     what is my ' final conclusion

the meaning of the phrase dal segno d'Erasmo. Well, really,
my final conclusion is still far distant. Far distant, because
I(by reason of my Royal Institution lecture next Saturday)
  can't go again to the B.M. this week ; and, as the Reading-
room will be closed for six months, and as it will take me

Iperhaps a fortnight to hunt up all the books printed by
Valgrisius,         may be able perhaps by October 26 to draw
a judgment, possibly a final one. At present my firm
Iconviction is that il segno d'Erasmo was the designation of

the officina of Vincentius Valgrisius : why so don't know ;
and whether it was symbolised by a brazen serpent hanging
I I Ion"a
       tau don't know.               an  hour ago that  possess --
        suddenly remembered
an heirloom from my grandfather -- a copy of Erasmus'
Encomium Marice, with the etched illustrations of Holbein.
I looked it out, for
Ivirginibus puellisqueas        some of the      loccuktes darceupubnoparreds.entaItbleis

                                keep it in a
' MfiPIAS EFKnMION. Stultiticiae Laus . Des . Erasmi
Rot. Declamatio. Figuris Holbinianis adornata. Basiliae

MDCLXXVI.' Pretty late! A copper-plate title-page,
followed by an ordinary printed one. Then comes a dedica
tion-page to Colbert with an engraved head-piece in the

         of which is emblazoned a serpent ; thus : [sketch].
Imid"dHlee                                         Whether these are
                                                 not a printer's mark,
arms of
         is not suspended on         a Ittauis.                         the
         Colbert know not.                                              for
the book is imprinted ' Typis Genathianis,' and the printed

title-page has an astronomical device (as a mark) of an

eclipse, with the words : ' Patitur nee dissolvitur.' Fancy
     moon being down on her luck, and suffering
Ithe"   have a note that in Bagford's Collection  yet resolute !
                                                  of title-pages
in the B. M. there is an exquisite engraved figure of Erasmus
(in copper-plate) as title to the        Colloquice in an Amsterdam
edition printed by Guili. Janson
                                         (MDCXXI ?) -- in Bagford's

     16
242 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

volume ix, p. 23, no. 142. You should see it. But it

throws no light on the great serpent problem, which re-
         still  ' wrop in mistry.'" Ever
maineth                                                                         "

                                                          truly     yours      :

[Signed by a serpent twining to make S. P. upon a T].

These letters serve to show the thoroughness with which

detail  wpaas ppeur rsuoend, "  aPnedtewr itShhowrht a"t  delight.   To the reprint
of the                                                    by the    Bibliographical

Society, Thompson appended his apologia in a footnote :

" This paper is of the nature of a literary incursion. One
who, whatever his experience in navigating other regions,
has without compass or pilot, without sailing orders, with
no charts save the Catalogue of the British Museum, ventured
forth into                              of Elizabethan              literature
indeed be   the    arcIhfipheelagdooes    not meet with              deserved      must
            rash.                                                                  ship

wreck, he must at least apologise for his unwarranted
adventure."

   The   DteheMa" genleectetricaro" usaemdbeTr hoanmdps"onm'saginnetteirces"t   in gems.
Besides                                                                        loadstone

there were others of which Gilbert wrote, and many others

which he knew to be prized by the ancients for their virtues.

For further enlightenment in this particular field, Thompson

turned to the orientalists. He had some correspondence

with an old member of the Society of Telegraph Engineers

resident at Teheran, there engaged upon the works of three

Persian lapidaries, and delighted to send notes of scientific

interest concerning certain stones.

On another occasion he applied to Dr. Murray of the

Oxford Dictionary, and received by return post a reply
written on the back sheet of this note :

Dinr."EDnGEgillAi"bsRehCratDa,nsRayt.shoeuMa UntseRaylmRnl AoemYn,eyomfwahemfothirnee'rrgatelhme?mwIatorVidseuvnsicneecdnentinitiinLrauaptoiinsc,c"ub--rsy

the Bristol diamond so called -- found near St. Vincent's

rocks at "ClBifetolinev. e  m"eY, ours v"eSryiLVtAruNltyr,s

                                                             P. THOMPSON."
                      THE LIBRARY                                             243

"DEA"RWePRhOaFvEeSSnOoR,trace of the term Vincentina in Eng
lish, though, not having yet reached V, it is not possible to
say what may or may not turn up in the meantime. But
the term is not in Chester's Dictionary of Names of Minerals,
the latest and fullest known to me, nor among the synonyms
in Dana's Index. The latter would indeed condemn the
word at once as irregularly formed, since he ejects all names

in -ine as fancy names, not scientific. All mineral species
are named in -ite. But a variety, merely popularly recog
nised, like serpentine, might retain -ine, and in this respect
' vincentine,' if it had any distinctive meaning, might be
allowed. The man who knows best about mineral names is
L. P      . Ask him.
                      " Yours ver"yJ.truAl.y,H. MURRAY."

Thompson's library contained a number of books on the

subject of gems ; amongst the earliest of its printed treasures

was an anonymous work, Lapidarium omni voluptate refertum,

printed in Vienna about 1506 by Winter burger, the owner

of one of the earliest presses in Vienna, whose books are much

sought after. Of later date there were Robert Boyle's

Essay about the origine and virtues of Gems ; von Franken-
berg's Magnetisches Edelstein, a very rare book unknown

in several of the best collections ; and van Helmont's Ortus

medicince, published in Amsterdam in 1648, and particularly

cherished by its owner for its accounts of the Magnetic Cure

of Wounds, and the Magic of Amber.

Thompson wrote and read several lively essays on such

tshuebje"ctOs ddas  VTohluemeVsirt"ueas ndof  Gemmes and Flies in Amber at
                                              the " Portfolio Society," where

the literary rather than the scientific outlook was pre

dominant.

A reference in the De Magnete to the letter of Peter the

Pilgrim   sTeytnTdhaollmLpescotunreuspo"n      yet another  quest. In    the  first
of his "                                      at the Royal                in
                                                            Institution       1907

he gave to the public the results of his labours on the works

of Petrus Peregrinus, or Pierre de Maricourt of Picardy, a

wandering soldier of fortune of the thirteenth century. In

spite of his profession he was a student of magnetism, possess
244 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

ing, for that early date, remarkable scientific method, as set
forth in his manuscript Epistola de Magnete in 1269.

   Only twenty-eight copies of his manuscript are known to
exist. Thompson was familiar with the one in the British
Museum, which was interesting for the annotations and

explanatory diagrams by the hand of the astrologer Dr.
John Dee (the subject of yet another of Thompson's bio
graphical essays), who told how the sailors in the North Sea
used to keep their lodestone locked up as long as known
land was in sight, and took it out to touch the compass

needle when on the open sea.

   The Thompson Library copy of the MS. was an Italian one
of the fourteenth century, and had been in the Library of
Prince Boncompagni, and used as the basis of the printed
version by Padre Bertelli in the sixteenth century. This
printed work is even rarer than the MS. Thompson's copy
came from the library of the same Prince, and was the
only copy not in public collections. He had another
imperfect English MS., which was reproduced in facsimile
by Quaritch, printed in black with the red and blue capitals
of the original, a style adopted by Thompson in the printing
of his translation, except that the coloured lettering was all

to be done by hand. Thompson himself rubricated a
number of copies in leisure minutes during winter evenings,
and when away on short winter holidays at Bath or
Torquay. The little volume was privately issued by the
translator.

   The British Academy published a memoir on P. Pere-
grinus from a paper Thompson read before that body in 1907,
of which the following letter from Sir William Huggins, the

astronomer, President of the Royal Society, is an appre

ciation.

    "  MY"    DEAR  PROF. THOMPSON,
              Many  thanks, indeed, for
                                         the  welcome  gift  of  a  copy

of  "yoOunre  British  Academy paper on Peter P.
              is at a  loss whether more to admire the
                                                        wideness    of

your scientific, literary, and artistic interests and powers,
or your ability of microscopic concentration in the un
ravelling of the obscure and the involved. Of all this your
                     H)e Sette of ©oo Dolumes.

       JSrotber Silvamts p. tTbompson, jf.TR.S., on
                            " fflies in Hmber."

244]
                   THE LIBRARY                  245

paper is a notable illustration ; which, besides on its own
account, is of great interest."

Thompson followed up the history of the compass from

the days of Peter P., and in 1913, on the occasion of the

International Congress of Historical Studies held in London,

when he represented the Royal Society on the Executive

Committee called by the British Academy for making the

necessary preparations, he read at         one  of the sectional
                                          on "  The Origin and
meetings of   the Congress a  Cpaarpder"
Development   of the Compass              (Rosa Ventorum). He

had then been working some ten years at the subject, and

had amassed a collection of compass-cards dating from

1640 onwards ; as the earliest in existence date from 1584

his collection was pretty thoroughly representative. When

giving the Odd Volumes an evening on the subject in 1907

he wrote to Conrad Cooke :

I" am hoping to greet you to-morrow night at the
Dinner, and write to ask whether of your goodness of
heart you would kindly bring round with you your Chinese
Compass, which it's a beauty and didn't owe to be kept
Ifor ever in       cdoumspk asasn-dc"aCrEdimsvem--rebrfiuraatntenredn"vaaerYklrlnEyae, sMHs AeoGafNthyEeoTnuIZrECsSht.iu"ndeye..
   have lots  the
   " To THE    of

              MOST NOBLE,
AND RIGHT REVD.
 YE MECHANICK."

  In his library he collected a number of old treatises on

navigation by the compass, and a specimen of those rare old
sailing maps with decorative wind-roses. Amongst his
treasures in this category was a work of Blondus, De Ventis
et Navigatione Libellus, printed in Venice in 1546, an
excessively rare book, containing directions for sailing
out into the open ocean to the New World. The wind-rose

depicted had only twenty-six points instead of the thirty-
two of the ordinary mariner's compass, and was unique.
Another, Mark Ridley's own copy with marginal notes and

corrections of his Short Treatise of Magneticall Bodies and
Motions published in 1613, contained an early map of
246 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

...Australia ; and a third variety, Maister Thomas Blundevile
His Exercises                in the Arte of Navigation had a Wind-

rose and told of the legends of Flavio Gioia and the Lode-

stone Rock. A companion volume on The Theoriques of
Sevan Planets published in 1602, contained as addendum

an account of Gilbert's work, which was annotated in hand

writing, possibly that of the learned doctor himself.

Thompson's collection of books was of particular interest

to only a limited circle, but its fame became known in

America, where old books are rarer than in England. Dr.

Matot"teMlaoyrlacnadme"  to  England in    1909, and visited Thompson
                         in  order to see  the books. He wrote :

I" have not yet quite recovered from my agreeable
surprise at your very extensive collection of early magnetical
Iand electrical literature.      arrogate to myself properly,
Ithe right to say that know as much as ' the next man '
I Idoes --Dr. O'Reilly not excepted-- about the Latimer Clark

collection, which have handled again and again, and will
maintain, and can very easily prove, that yours surpasses
the latter far more than the Clark does the Ronalds [collection
in the possession of the English Institirtion of Electrical
Engineers] in many particulars. You not only have practi
cally what they have, but you can claim, what the others
cannot, that your collection embraces several examples of
many different varieties and numerous singularly attractive
bindings, the like of not one of which latter can be found in
ILat"imYoeru
Clark's.                     to  be envied,  and  heartily con
 are certainly
I Igratulate you.
                             think so much of your collection that
I Ishall unselfishly add to it wherever can. . . . When am
Ion the Continent will remember that you want more
pGailrbteicrut la! r"ly an Affaydatus . . . but not another 1628

   Dr. Mottelay afterwards became more familiar with
Thompson's library, and rendered him very considerable
service, especially in the preparation of his Hand List, printed
in 1914, when he had decided that he would part with the
collection of upwards of 900 old and scarce books of earlier

date than 1825, should he find some institution of learning
                            THE LIBRARY                                       247

or science desirous to possess it. It seemed most likely

that this would be across the Atlantic.

    After his death a movement was set on foot by his friends

among the Electrical Engineers to purchase his books for

the Institution, and when this was carried through the

collection became known as the Silvanus P. Thompson

Memorial Library, and should be fitly housed in the Institu

tion  B"uMildoirnlagnsdo"n  the   Thames Embankment.                  in a fashion
                            the  books were not arranged
  At

adequate to their worth. The library, built for a billiard-

room, was in the basement 'at the back of the house, with a

large bow window opening to a flight of stone steps out of the

area up to the garden, green in summer with its screen of

trees and creeper-covered gables. Inside, the whole of the

walls from floor to ceiling was lined with books and papers.

The 8,000 pamphlets were in lockers round the walls, above

books and below books. The woodwork was only black

enamelled deal, but in the panel of each of the locker doors

Thompson had pasted a richly coloured Japanese design,

which lent a certain distinctive air to the shelves. Most

of the old books were at one end of the room, and their

bindings attracted the eye at once. Over the fireplace was

a large painting of a double rainbow. The tables, benches,

cabinets, window-ledges, and even much of the floor-space

were piled with scientific periodicals and catalogues, accu

mulations of correspondence, portfolios into which were

sorted matter relating to some chapters of a book under

construction or revision, or some patent case seeking his

support in the law courts, or the calculations of some
practical work done at the College. His private secretaries

used to work there intermittently. The room was never

desecrated    by   the housemaid's duster,                        and was generally
referred to  as "                                                younger generation,
                   chaos " by the irreverent

who did not fathom its method ; it was distinctly a place

in which the master must not be disturbed, except for some

very grave reason, or to receive the good-night salutation

if  he happened    "tostubedyth"eruepsattairbse,d-lteimadein. g
    The smaller
                                                                 out  of the  drawing-

room held a good many of the most choice books of the
248 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

collection, as well as shelves 'full of theological and philo

sophical works.

   Thompson's books were his friends ; he knew such an

extraordinary number in an almost personal way, and his
pencil left comments and notes on fly-leaf and margin. His
book-plate was of his own design, with the family coat of

arms as its main feature. Many of the books were treasured

for more than the interest of the contents, some being
associated with his particular heroes of science. For

example : there was Sturgeon's Course of Twelve Lectures
on Galvanism, with an autographic dedication by the author,

the only piece of Sturgeon's writing Thompson ever found ;
these books had belonged to Faraday, with his book ticket

in them, one his own autograph copy of hie Experimental

Researches ;  hwisithD"e             Viribus  aEulcetcotrriiscit"atoisn  of   Galvani was
                                   ex dono                               the  title-page in
Volta's copy

his handwriting. Then there were Descartes' copy of

G" aClialertoe'ssiusD,"ialoagnude  de Systemate Mundi with the signature
                                   marginal notes in his handwriting ; and

two books of Ampere's bearing his inscription. One book

had belonged to S. T. Coleridge, another bore the bookplate
of the Penn family of Pennsylvania, a first edition this, of

Franklin's Experiments and Observations on Electricity ;
and yet another was specially chosen out for the sake of
its printer's mark, the Aldine Anchor in one of its rarest

forms.

   There were other books in these lockers ; some choice
work of William Morris, printed at the Caxton Press in a

style Thompson greatly admired and imitated in his booklets ;

portfolios of trial sheets ; books on printing and bookbinding
and the care of books. Another little collection of books,

on the Legend of the Pied Piper of Hamelin, and other rat

episodes, included his own Opusculum ; for this was the

subject of yet another paper to the Sette, being an account
of his own researches as to the origin of the Piper tale. He
loved mysteries, among others that of Edwin Drood,

speculative literature concerning which was represented on

his shelves.

His Piper volume has a frontispiece picture of the Pied
               THE SETTE OF ODD VOLUMES                                               249

Piper by John Hassall, the " Limner " of the Sette, and has

also this prefatory page.

   " An Odd Volume of a Set of Books bears not the value of the pro
portion to the perfect set." --BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

                         "DB TE FABULA NARRATOR
               " DB TE--of thee thyself, magnetic Brother
                                 the                  it can   be no other),
               F(AAnBdULwAe--ll  the     Sette wots    retold   anew --

                                        Story --here
               NARRATOR --runs, though now no tale, but true."

[Added         after the reading of the paper printed as       Opwculum       LIII.]

                 " To His ODDSHIP, THE MAONKTIZER
" Nay, nay, dear Oddship, theory won't avail--
  For "Heath thy sway our senses have grown riper ;

And now we know the meaning of the Tale :

               We play the Children's part, and thou'rl the Piper.

                                                                              E. S."

This illustrates the manner in which the Sette was accus

tomed to embellish the menu and programme of the evening's
entertainment, with caricatures, and apt quotations or

original rhymes. One form of versification in particular

was much       affected  "  foQruasotrmaeinsye"arws,eoref      which the above is an
example.        These                                          collected for distribu
tion to the Sette in 1904 (the year of Thompson's Oddship --

Presidency).

When he was elected President, Thompson had been a

member of the Sette some fourteen or fifteen years, during

which he had not only supported many of his predecessors

with papers and discourses, but thoroughly enjoyed those

of others and played his part in the discussions and speech-

omfatkhineg,"  and  t"hepethrsrounsst.  and  parry    of  wit  in the  good   company
               odd

" Odd, that is to say, in the sense of being each unlike the
                                                   individual in
oetahcehr,uunnmliaktechiendcr--afot,r  thoroughly  if you prefer       our    unlikeness,
                                       matchless,
                                                                        it    so --yet all

united in a common possession of literary tastes. Each of
us is fond, but each in his own way, of books ; and has his

own special bookinesses. Some of us love books for what

we find in them for intellectual food or spiritual companion-
250 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

ship ; some for good paper and fine printing ; some for the
beauty of their illustrations ; some for the splendour of their
binding ; some for literary or personal associations with
them or their authors ; some for the book-plates to be found
in them attesting their pedigrees."

   The Presidency was to Thompson quite a serious affair,
as may be gathered from his address to the Brethren, whom
he described in the above quotation.

   " Once a month we meet as a united Sette upon the shelves

of our library, to find our respective individualities all the
more appreciated, because, the more individual we become,
the more perfectly do we each fill his own niche upon the
shelf. Our sette is a little microcosm which the more truly
represents the great world without, the more diverse, that is
the more odd, we its constituent items may be. We are
all, as living individuals, filled with individual aims and
ambitions, we have objects in life, literary or artistic aspira
tions, hobbies, and tastes ; we all have axes to grind and
logs to roll. And in the midst of a wicked and ungrateful
world, where literature quarrels with science, where science
despises art, where art mocks at learning, where learning
spurns amusement, and amusement tends more and more
to flout art, literature, and science, there is much need for
such a microcosm which the world might well regard as the
image of what it should itself be. For in the perfect Sette
we reverse all this. To heighten and exalt literature, it must
be associated with art. To ennoble art, it must be inspired by
poetry or nature-study or antique lore. To honour science,
it must be given a literary setting. To music, to history,
to poetry, to painting, to travel, to the drama, to the
majesty of jurisprudence and to the constructive arts, the
perfect Sette accords its welcome. They all contribute
toward the rounded conception, the harmonious whole.
Rightly then, coming once a month to eat at our common
table, we mix Mutual Admiration with our Conviviality
(using the word in its nobler sense of knowing how to live
together), and enjoy them both the more in that we share
them both with those guests who honour us with their
company, and learn the inner meaning of our mutual bond."

   The catholicity of Thompson's friendships might be
gathered from the guests he brought to the meetings ;
               THE SETTE OF ODD VOLUMES                                 251

besides his family on Ladies' Nights, and many of his

scientific colleagues, he introduced on different occasions

such distinguished guests as Lord Alverstone, Lord Bryce,

Sir Francis Carruthers Gould ; and the late American
Ambassador, Dr. Page, accepted his invitation to one of

the ordinary meetings.                          that  " it is not  our  habit of
   But Thompson considered

hospitality, not our practice of conviviality, not our breezy

atmosphere of mutual admiration that will secure immor

tality. By our permanent contributions to the literature of

England we shall stand or fall." He was not satisfied that

their  e"offfot"hrtesYesaphrrooucBledoekdeeinsngdsthinaottfhcehthrpoeunbicleilecvaentiiinonngdseoglimagtehhwtefrhuinal tgslii,trereraganuryd
larly
form

occasional Opuscula, though many of these were literary

jewels.

    " The very smallness of the jewel is its glory. But the

Ijewel must                                     rightly cut, brightly polished,
well set."  "  b"eTrgueenupinhei,loscolepahr,y  neglects not the small for the
great."        The less ambitious                in letters is often the more
successful. For my own part,
                                                      prefer Wordsworth's
' Sonnet on Westminster Bridge ' to his ' Excursion,'
Keats' s ' Ode to the Nightingale ' to his ' Lamia ' or
' Isabella ' ; Tennyson's ' Tears, Idle Tears ' to the
... I I' Idylls of the King ' ; Browning's ' Pied Piper ' to his
' Sordello.'                  may be wrong, but prefer the sonnet
Icalled ' Renouncement ' of Mrs. Meynell to the whole of

William Morris's poems : had rather have written Matthew
Arnold's   H'aSroclhdo.'la"r  Gypsy '  or his         ' Thyrsis ' than
' Childe                                                                Byron's

    He reminded them that the early members of the Sette

had hoped to produce from time to time some greater opus

to  place  alongside   the    little volumes, the Opuscula, valuable
as  some   of these   were.      " Behind the burlesque ceremonial

of the Sette are hidden the sterner realities of its literary

being : we have learned with Horace to mix a little folly

with our wisdom ; to play the fool gently, with grace, with

art, withal not forgetting that there is a place for tears as

well as for laughter in all things human."
252 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

  At the end of his Oddship,                   Thompson    r"ecaebivreildliacnotngyreaatru."
                                              Brothers on
lations from a number of the

Perhaps his ready tongue was of assistance to him in this

position. Sir William Crookes, accepting an invitation to his

Ladies' Night, wrote :

   " The thought of having to rise on my hind legs altogether
upsets the pleasure of a dinner with congenial friends. You,
to whom speaking comes as easily as breathing, cannot
understand the trouble it is to us on a lower linguistic plane."

   His genius was certainly not unappreciated in the Sette.
An absent Brother, the Apothecary, wrote later :

  I" have just read thro'           your Year  Book with very great
                                     seems to  take me back to the
interest and pleasure. It

good old times when there was such a real feeling of union

and brotherly love between us all."

    There are several cartoons of " The Magnetiser " drawn

by Jack Hassall              ; the  latest adorned    the programme the
nanigdhtisThlaobmelplesdon"  spoke  on " Crystals of   Snow and Others,"

                             a Many-sided Crystal.        Very rare. The

property of Ye Sette of Odd Volumes. Not a Cubist

Portrait."

   This  fi"nathleapPplareycwiartigiohnt,"is  from the pen of   Dr. John Tod-
hunter,                                       perhaps the most   gifted literary

man of the Sette, and to Thompson, one of the most con

genial in spirit. It was written quite near the end of hia

life, when he had been long absent from the fraternity, and

appreciated        thTehompappseorn'sonfa"ithTfhuelneWssi.nd-rHoeseh."ad j"usYtorueceairvee,d"

a   cwoproyte,of"  one of the few members of the Sette who knows
he

and can explain everything, and is as much at home in Art
as in Science. You are a Brother of whom it may truly be
said : ' Nihil tetigit quod non ornavit.' Floreat semper

Frater Silvanus !
A <May Sidtd Cyutl.  Viry rare. Ttt fraftry ,f Yi Suit of OtU V<>\*m,i. NOT* Cubiu Ptrtnit,

                          Brotber /IDagnetijer.
                        CHAPTER XII

WOBK ON OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION

   " If no optical invention of first magnitude, no discovery of funda

mental importance has been announced, it must not be assumed that there
have been no advances. Progress there has been, progress solid and real,
if inconspicuous, all along the line. No branch of physical science can
in the present day remain stationary. The workers are too numerous,
the rewards of success, whether in the joy of scientific discovery, or in fame,
or wealth, are too tempting. Moreover, the increase of knowledge, the
mastery of principles over phenomena, the conquest of the forces of Nature,
are cumulative. Every attempt at wider generalisations, even if un
successful in itself, provokes new researches and extends the foundations
for further advance. To this truth the science of optics forms no excep
tion. Progress is continuous, even though the work-a-day world hears
little of it, and heeds it not. For the true pioneer halts not to listen for
the sound of the plaudits : he toils on content in the faith that some day
he, or those after him for whom his labours will avail, will arrive at the
goal." 1

   Earlier chapters contain references ' to Thompson's
activities in optics at the beginning of his career. Of the
seven papers published during 1877 five were on optical

subjects : certain properties of the eye, optical illusions,
and polarising prisms. Though this proportion of his
work was not again devoted to optics until late in his life,
he did not ever entirely drop his activity or his investigations
in this field. The design of new polarising prisms s con
tinued to be his favourite optical exercise, and in 1883 he

gave to his friends R. and J. Beck, the Quaker firm of

manufacturers of optical and other scientific instruments,
the process which he was working out, that they might try
making some prisms for a mineralogical microscope. His

1 Presidential Address  to the Second          Optical Convention,  1912.
                                          253
» See pages 44, 46.
» See page 61.
254 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

work was published in the Journal of the Royal Microsco
pical Society, when he read a paper to that body on polarising
apparatus for the microscope.

   Thompson acquired a very large collection of objects for
displaying by polarised light, both for the microscope and
the lantern, objects which in themselves are quite colourless
and dull, mere bits of spar, variously arranged, yet in the
rays of polarised light transmitting brilliant combinations

of colour, which can be completely changed by the mere
turning of one of the prisms through a small angle. To
find the mathematical explanation of these colours took a

genius such as Newton's, but Thompson used to offer to the
public some attempt at an explanation in a popular lecture,
" The Colours of Polarised Light." This was his subject
when, at the time of the meeting of the British Association
in Newcastle, 1889, he delivered a lecture in the large
Tyne Hall, under the auspices of the Sunday Lecture

Society.

   For the making of some of his prisms Thompson sent as

early as 1881 to Germany, and had some correspondence
                                                  ThInom1 p8s8o4 nhe"
with a firm of  instrument-makers in Homburg.
was informed     that calcspar polarisers " nach

were being made in Berlin. His work on the subject was

known over there, probably more widely than in England.

He showed himself very familiar with the work of the

Germans, referring in his papers to the formulae of Dr. Abbe

and to the new kinds of optical glass of Dr. Schott of Jena.

A new instrument which he devised, a direct- vision spectro

scope which also polarised the light, was the outcome of a
remark on the part of Mr. Ahrens, the Londoner, who did

the actual cutting, grinding, and setting up of a number of

his prisms.
   None of this polarisation work was communicated to the

Royal Society ; several   papers   were read at the Physical
Society, and published   in the
                                  Philosophical Magazine. It

was the subject of the only Friday Evening Discourse

at the Royal Institution which he ever devoted to optics,

his first Discourse, in 1899, on Optical Torque (see

page 158).
                OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION            255

"  That   year  he read to   the Physical Society   a paper called
   Notes   on   Geometrical                        (no other part
                              Optics. Part I."

ever followed) which he introduced with the following

explanation :

   " The division of optics into a ' geometrical ' part,

founded upon the treatment of the subject from the ray
point of view, and a ' physical ' part, founded upon the
treatment of the subject from the wave point of view, has
long seemed illogical. Experience in the teaching of the
science suggests that it would be preferable to adopt the
wave theory as a common basis, provided the formulae of
lenses and mirrors which form the staple of geometrical
optics are as readily established on wave principles as on
ray principles. Five years ago the author of these notes
made an attempt to rewrite the elementary part of geo
metrical optics on wave principles ; and, though hitherto
he has published nothing on the subject, he has subjected
the method to the test of experience, and has made it the
basis of his optical lectures year by year. . . .

   As all teachers of the subject know, the very first assump
tions made in establishing the elementary formulae of
spherical mirrors and lenses are that angles may be written
instead of their sines, and tangents. The assumptions
made in the method now published are, it is true, different,
but involve no greater sacrifice of accuracy. . . ."

    Thompson never found time to write the perfect book on
optics which he conceived and outlined to the extent of
chapter headings and a preface. But his method of
attacking geometrical optics was set forth in the appendix
to the volume of Light Visible and Invisible, in which he
expounded those parts of the subject that are necessary to a
serious student, but not suitable for the Christmas Lectures

(see p. 192).
   He was engaged in some refraction work in early years,

no doubt undertaking it out of sympathy with the work

of Dr. J. H. Gladstone who wrote to him in November

1890:

  I" At last have got your Refractometer released from its
256 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

incarceration at Burlington House, and return it with many

thanks.

  If you should happen to come across your observations on

Toluene, will you kindly let me have them, and they shall be
added to the long table of refractive indices which is rapidly
growing."

    About this time he was actively interested in the measure

ment of lenses, devising a method for the determination of

optical constants for lens   combinations    of short focal lengths.
He called the instrument     he used a "
                                           New Focometer." To

have it properly constructed was a costly business, so he

applied, with success, to the Royal Society for a Government

grant to help to cover the cost, and subsequently sent a

communication through Prof. Carey Foster to the Royal

Society, his only paper on optics presented there. He

also lectured in the winter of 1891-2 at the Society of
Arts on " The Measurement of Lenses." His method evoked

considerable interest amongst the more highly trained

opticians, but the apparatus was not repeated, and the

only model is now the property of the Northampton Institute,

Clerkenwell, where optics has been, since 1898, the subject

of special study.

    During the succeeding ten years very little work was

published. There was one paper to the Physical Society on

photometers, showing him to be as up-to-date in this branch

of the subject as in others, and referring to another little
invention. His thanks in this case were due to his friend

M" rY.oAu.  P. Trotter, who began a long letter dated April 1893 :
            may like to hear the very latest thing (1) in photo

meters, and (2) in photometry," and proceeded to impart
it                                  became absorbed into
"    with   generous detail  which  an " Opusculum " on   the
    Notes   on Photometry."                               The

    That year he published also
Magick Mirrour of Japan. He had become interested in
these mirrors when Professor Ayrton, lecturing at Bristol,

displayed the peculiar property of the polished metal mirror

of casting a shadowy image of the pattern on its back in the

patch of light obtained by reflecting a brilliant beam from

its silvery, and apparently perfectly smooth, front surface.
    OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION                             257

It was just the kind of scientific mystery to set Thompson

off in happy quest of the explanation.

This first little optical book was soon followed by the

Light Visible and Invisible, and in 1 900 by a translation from

the German of Otto Lummer's Contributions to Photographic

Optics, which gave the first account in English of the remark

able work of Professor von Seidel, of Munich ; but the

many elaborations and the copious additions made by the

translator, with the author's full consent, rendered the book

almost more a work of Thompson himself than of Professor

Lummer. He was led to undertake this work by an acute

sense of the lack of optical literature for technical students

who were not masters of  the German   wlarnitgteuange"  ; the existing
English text-books were   nearly all                    by university
dons for university students." In his preparation of this

book, as in the compilation of his Optical Tables, Thompson

drew upon the advice and experience of the highly skilled

experts of the various English firms, hoping to make his
work as one " by an optician for opticians."

  In the spring of 1900 Thompson took a week's holiday

alone in the Thiiringen-wald, with a view to visiting the

famous Jena works. The following are extracts from his

letters home. He travelled by Flushing straight through to

Weimar, whence he wrote :     Cassel           "April Uth, 1900.
                                        is uninteresting : but
   " The line as far as near
from Cassel onwards it is quite delightful in scenery. It
was dark when we reached Eisenach, the beginning of the

Th"urWinegiemna-wr alldie.s outside the forest. After breakfast  II
wandered round the old town, which is very quaint.
visited the house where Goethe lived ; and which is pre
served, just as he left it. His collections of antiquities,
drawings, portraits, medals, skulls (for his study in com
parative anatomy) and herbarium are in excellent order.
He had also a lot of optical and electrical apparatus. His
Arbeit-zimmer, and the room in which he died are just as

Ihe "lefthathdemal.so a long walk in the park, and saw the house

and garden where he sometimes lived in the summer."

[Goethe was a subject of Thompson's enthusiasm.]

17
258 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

                                       " JENA,
                                "April ISA, 1900.

I" This morning brought a heavy storm --rain and wind,
and made me change my plans.    had thought to go off
early by train to Ilmenau [the chief centre of Thuringian
I I Igla"ss
work]. . . . Perhaps     shall go to-morrow.  was going
wrote you just after  midday dinner that
to call on Professor Abbe. Do you remember him from
Frankfort days ? He is a tall, spare, dark man, who dresses
rather clerically in a long coat, and a vest that buttons tight
Iunder the chin. As he was in 1891, so he is to-day, only a
shade grayer.    found him at home, surrounded by a circle

... Iof his family . . . and various friends, Professor Auerbach,
Dr. Straubel, and their wives.  was received most

cordially, and was introduced to the company, and drank
Sunday afternoon coffee with them. Then Professor Abbe
proposed a walk, and we set out up the ' Philosophen-weg '
                 the hill-side, toward the old battle-field to
which winds up
the north-west.  It was fine, and quite hot. Beds of purple

.anemone we found on the hill-side. We wandered about
leisurely, visited the Napoleon-stein from which tradition
says that Napoleon watched the battle. Then went on to

a little village to find the inevitable restaurant, where we
drank a villainous decoction, seemingly a hybrid between
bitter-beer and lemonade. Then we turned homewards,

and divided as we neared the town. Dr. and Mrs. Straubel
took me off to supper. Dr. Straubel is assistant to Professor
Winkelmann --Professor of Physics -- in the University.
IThey are very pleasant folk, and own three small boys, the

eldest a ' Bubbles ' of about five years, with whom made
great friends. He claimed me as Onkd forthwith. Abbe

holds a most extraordinarily high place in the esteem of the
good people of Jena. He came to Jena about 1869, as

Professor of Astronomy. He found an optician of the name
of Carl Zeiss, with about a dozen workmen under him, in the

town. He helped Zeiss by advising him about his instru
ments, calculated new lenses for him, tested his microscopes

and adjusted them, finally became his partner, and then,
when he died, his successor. The firm of C. Zeiss now

employs over 1,000 workmen, and Abbe is director. Also
he created the glass-works of Schott & Co. for making optical
glass. And the glass-works of Schott -- founded in 1886,
now employ also about 1,000 workmen. Abbe owns half
this concern. But now comes the most extraordinary thing ;
                   OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION                               259

Abbe has turned the firm of Zeiss, together with his share
in the Schott glass-works, into a ' Carl Zeiss Stiftung,' that
is to say, into a sort of Socialist Company, in which all the
work-people are co-operative owners. He, who might be

deriving an income of £6,000 to £8,000 a year, simply draws

a salary of t'600, as do also his three co-directors. All the
other profits are divided amongst the employees. And it is

arranged that, whenever Dr. Schott dies, his concern shall

entirely merge into the Carl Zeiss Stiftung. They say that

5,000 souls depend on these two concerns ; that they are
very prosperous ; that the social style and civilisation of
the work-people is far above the average in Germany, and
that the growing prosperity of Jena is directly attributable
to the genius of Dr. Abbe.
wonder they honour him.
it was wet and stormy, stopped
Ilar""geANlsyo                                           indoors  after  break
fast, and did some writing. Just before noon the day cleared

Iup, and, though it is very windy, it is bright. So went
out for a brisk walk along the high-road up the Miihle-thal
...back towards Weimar.                     A letter has just come from
...Elder, saying that he finds to his dismay that
                                                                  he can't

get through his business by Tuesday night, so won't be able
to "cOomutesidoen
                      here.             of  my  bedroom  is a tablet which

                      the window
has the announcement : ' Hier wohnte Dr. Martin Luther,
1522.' In the next room to mine Bismarck stayed in 1892.
This also is commemorated by a tablet outside, and by a

silv"erMapnlayteo, f  inscribed, upon the        bedstead.        The former
                                                bear tablets.
                      the houses in Jena

residences of Hegel and Schlegel and Fichte and Wieland
Iand Schilling are all marked. Goethe appears to have

lived in four or five houses. crossed yesterday the path
where he walked up and down when composing the Erlkdnig.
To-day the two great men in Jena are Haeckel and Abbe.
There is an Ernst Haeckel Strasse, in which his villa stands.
Abbe lives at No. 7 in Carl-Zeiss Platz."
                                                                  "April 19th.
I" have had a busy morning                      First with Dr. Pulfrich at

Zeiss's works, showing me the optical laboratory ; and
afterwards with Professors Straubel and F. Auerbach in the

IPh"ysYiceaslteLrdaabyorawtaosryalsoof  the University.  the  morning,   which

                                        a busy day. In
was fine but cold, took a walk along the Unterer Philo-
sophen-weg in the north-east direction, and explored some
260 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Ipretty lit tie villages running from the river towards the battle
field.      found   several  plants that were quite unknown to me              I;
one a               think)   with wonderfully decorative leaves.
        thistle (I
Icame back for middle-day dinner, and then went about 2.30,

to Professor Abbe's house, where had coffee with him
I Iand Mrs. Abbe. Then he took me across the road to Zeiss's
factory, where spent most of the afternoon.                       saw their

Ilens-grinding and lens-polishing machinery, and the room
where they test the photographic lenses.                      met Dr. von
Rohr, Dr. Rudolph, and Dr. Pulfrich, all men of distinction

Iin scientific optics, and all employed in this firm. After

Ihad finished this tour of inspection had a walk by the river
side, and then returned for a short time to The Bar [his hotel]
before going to Professor Auerbach's house to supper. We
were a party of seven --Professor and Mrs. A. (both of whom
have been in England), Professor and Mrs. Abbe, and Pro
fessor and Mrs. Straubel. We had a very pleasant evening,
talking of German literature, of the reform of the Univer
Isities, and of minor arts, including photography, in which

Mrs. Auerbach is an adept. find that my book on Faraday

Iis "readgoantdhisapapfrteecrniaotoend  here.            glass-works  ;   then
                                        to see Schott's

Ifor another little walk, and to supper with Dr. von Rohr.

To-morrow go on to Eisenach, the first stage of the return

homewards."                                                   " EISENACH,
                                                            April 20th, 1900.
                                                         "

I" It has been hot -- hot as July to-day.                   had a little walk,
while it was yet fresh, after breakfast, across the ' Princessin
IGarten ' and near the old fortifications of Jena. And then

once more went to Zeiss's optical works to select some
prisms for the laboratory at Finsbury, and to chat with
some of the scientific men at Zeiss's works. Two of them,

Iand Professor Auerbach, came back to lunch with me at the

Schwarzen Baren ; and after lunch called on Professor
IAb"be
        to say adieu.     a  little     before  7 p.m.,  and  took a walk      <
        reached here
                          while it                                         up

to "thTeheWatortwbnurgis  dressed       was yet twilight.   with  arches  and
                                        in festival array
Idecorations ; for they expect the Kaiser to-morrow.
I Inot know of this.                                                       did

                             think shall not trouble myself about
his Imperial Majesty, but shall (after seeing the interior of
the Wartburg early in the morning) take a long walk over
the Horselberg to hunt for relics of the stout knight Tann
            OPTICS AND* ILLUMINATION                                       261

haiiser. It will be a ten-mile walk, and much better worth
seeing than the erratic monarch of these parts. There is

evidently some very fine forest all about : and Baedeker

Iis"a               detailed guide to be of
    sufficiently  may be home before this           use.    is  delivered."
    Possibly                                        letter

In the summer of 1 900 was the great Exhibition in Paris ;

and there again Thompson was                  brought  wuhpereaga"inthste  the
German optical industries in the              exhibit                      ad

vanced state of certain branches of optics in Germany was

revealed by that most remarkable catalogue of the collective

exhibit of the opticians and instrument-makers of Germany."

These things which he saw abroad aroused his patriotic

ardour, for he was made conscious of the fact that his own

countrymen  hawveereitlasgog.ing"  behind in  this   department,   and he
would not                          Not that   we    are to take   German

methods and copy them. England has to work out its own

problems in its own way."

Thompson had early shown himself thoroughly alive to

the broad national aspects of his subject, optics. There is

a letter dated December 1891 from the superintendent of

the Observatory at Kew saying :

   " Mr. Galton and Major Darwin were down here yesterday

as a lens-testing sub-committee, and we discovered your
kind letter just to hand. Darwin had talked over the matter
of the term astigmatism with Abney, and decides that you
are right, and that it ought to be changed. Galton is also
of that mind, but Abney is decidedly averse. As the latter
is abroad for a while the question must wait for his return,
meanwhile if aplanation or aberrancy 'IB introduced into

Ioptical terminology, we will make note of it. Personally,

agree with you in preferring the first term."

   Thompson used to be very emphatic about the importance
of the right use of terms to avoid confusion of thought.

   Of national importance too, in Thompson's opinion, was

the raising of the status and the training of members of the

optical industries. A beginning had been made by the

organisation of examinations for opticians and the granting

of certificates by the British Optical Association. This
was followed by a revival of activity in the ancient guild
262 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

known as the Spectacle Makers' Company, which led to this

body also founding a scheme of examinations. Early in

1898 plans were completed, and the Upper Warden of the
Guild, Mr. H. E. Thornthwaite, F.R.A.S., one of the keenest
supporters of the movement, undertook (the master for that
year being the Lord Mayor), to enlist the aid of some eminent
scientist to act as a third examiner in conjunction with two
members of the Company. Sir William Crookes was first
approached, but work for the British Association and a

prospective voyage prevented his assent, even to dividing
the work with Thompson, who was next asked. He ac

cepted, and so from the beginning had the honour of being
associated with the Spectacle Makers' Company in its
endeavour to stimulate opticians to acquire proficiency in
the technics of their craft by offering to those who passed
the examination a diploma and fellowship in the Company.

   The city press evinced considerable interest in and
approval of the activities of the Guild, and the examinations,
two in the year, were well patronised by members of the
trades both in and outside London. The Master wrote
gratefully to Thompson of all he had done, which had added

so much success and edat to the scheme. At the beginning

of the second year, 1899, Thompson was admitted to the
fellowship of the Spectacle Makers' Guild, and became a
freeman of the City of London. The Guild had an influx
of distinguished supporters of its efforts in Mr. Christie,
the Astronomer Royal, Sir William Crookes, Lord Kelvin

and Captain Abney.

   Many of the ophthalmic surgeons of the country looked
somewhat askance at the new movement, and the organisers
realised that they must walk warily. The Master of the
Company attended in person many, if not all, of the earlier

examinations, and addressed the candidates on the use and

abuse of the diploma, the standard of which, it was intended,

should be maintained at a good level.

   After two years Thompson offered to resign his post of

examiner, and at the same time analysed his experiences

and offered advice on the scheme, demanding evidence of

better preliminary training from candidates.
OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION  263

   He was really thoroughly interested in the scheme, and
continued his work as chief examiner for some years more.
His colleague for many years was Dr. G. Lindsay Johnson,
F.R.C.S., the ophthalmic surgeon. They both had con
siderable qualms when the Guild decided to accede to the
desire expressed through Lord Kelvin and other eminent
men, and added to the scheme a diploma in sight-testing,
and the recognition of a diseased condition of the eye, which
had at first been regarded as the work of the qualified

medical man. A committee of enquiry had been employed,

for neither of the examiners would have consented to act

without a reasonable guarantee against abuse of the diploma
for the granting of which they were responsible. But
common sense expressed the view that, as the general public

had since the beginning of spectacles gone to the optician
to be tested (after a fashion), and fitted out, it was not likely
that that habit would alter, and it was much better that the

opticians should have the stimulus of the Fellowship of the
Guild, which also could be made, in some degree, a safeguard
against imposture. When Thompson retired in 1908, under
the pressure of work on the Kelvin biography, he was
succeeded for a time as chief examiner by Dr. R. T. Glaze-
brook (afterwards Sir Richard Glazebrook).

   The increased educational activity in the industries
manifested itself in the establishment in 1900 of an Optical
Society for the discussion of scientific and technical matters.

Thompson was elected one of the two first Vice- Presidents,

and gave their first lecture, inviting the members to meet
at Finsbury Technical College, where he could conveniently

demonstrate to them phenomena which he classed as

" Aberrations." In his lecture he referred to the theories

of Professor Siedel of Munich, whose German publications
were largely unfamiliar even to the leading opticians in
this country. He lectured to them on other occasions, but
he was not able to give any time to the organisation of the

Society, and retained his official connection only under
protest, until in 1903 he, with Dr. Glazebrook, was shown

the appreciation felt for services rendered, and the confidence

won, by election as the first honorary members of the So
264 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

ciety. In the year of his Presidency two more distinguished,

names were added, Lord Kelvin and Sir William Christie,

the Astronomer  oRf oy"aol.pto-technics,"  as      Thompson       termed
   The subject
all the questions relating to the training of opticians, was a.
matter of great concern to him, and he devoted much time
and energy to elaborating one of his comprehensive surveys
                                                                   at the
of the   whole subject, which      he   delivered   in a lecture  F. R.S.,
Society                                            Glazebrook,
          of Arts in April 1 902.      Dr. R. T.
Director of the National Physical Laboratory, was in the
chair, in the absence of Sir Wm. Abney, and at the close

"of the lecture " pointed the moral and adorned the tale
with all the weight of his position at the head of the institu
tion whose function it was to foster scientific research and
ensure technical perfection in the very important matter of

scientific instrument construction.

  In his lecture Thompson stated what facts were known

about the condition of the optical trades, which, he estimated,

employed perhaps 20,000 persons in the London district
alone, outlined the necessary foundations for any sound

technical knowledge of optics, and the subsequent course

of study advisable for a would-be expert optician, then pro

ceeded to the question how the English worker was to obtain

these. He analysed the statistics provided for him by the

Board of Education, showing the rapid decline of numbers

of students in the classes in optics all over the country since

1890, which he attributed largely to the failure to meet the

practical needs of would-be opticians ; there were no
teachers with the requisite knowledge of opto-technics ; and
the need for them was quite as great as for the then fully

recognised teachers in recognised institutions for electro-

technics. He had at one time hoped that a special depart

ment might have been added at Finsbury Technical College,

and had drafted a scheme for the establishment of one as

early as 1886 ; and later, when the London Polytechnics

were being established, he had hoped for an Optotechnical

Institute   at Clerkenwell, the    district in which   t"hethatrtadthees
centred,   holding the view of     these institutions

less they have of poly, and the more of technic, just so far
               OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION               265

have they benefited the industries." From this point of

view he warmly commended the special optical work of the

Northampton Institute in Clerkenwell.
   His experience in the Spectacle Makers' Examinations

convinced him of the immediate necessity of establishing

some proper system of education of opticians, and he urged,

as a matter of national importance, the foundation of a real

Optotechnical  Inasntditutree,spopnrsoipbelerlyfoerquaipp"edresapnedctasbtaleffedopwticitahl
picked men,

journal." He lamented the lack of good optical literature

in English, and his opinion in this matter was endorsed

again and again by opticians. The whole scheme outlined

by Thompson in the paper met with approval and support

from all parties present at the meeting, representatives of

the trade in various branches, and academic and technical

teachers of optics. To the question how such an institution

was to be brought into existence, he replied by asking why

the men in the optical industries did not request that

the money which was granted annually to the Technical

Education Board of the London County Council, and not

used, should be spent in the instruction of opticians.

  Thompson's work bore fruit by very slow degrees. In

1902 a deputation of the Optical Society was received by the

Technical Education Board, and strongly advocated the

provision of further facilities for instruction in technical

optics ; and next year a separate department was formed

at the Northampton Institute, "with the assistance of the

Technical Education Board of the L.C.C." The Optical

Society had earlier shown itself alive in this matter, having

appointed an Education Committee, and the members had

subscribed every year to the support of the classes of the

Northampton Institute. This was the only local support

the Institute had during the years of chaos that followed
in London Education, when the 1903 Act abolished the

Technical Education Board, and the official administration

of all funds passed into the control of the Education Com

m" iottpeteo-toefchthneicsL,".Ct.Cho. u;ghantdhe  little money went the way of
                                                   work had been specially com

mended to the care of the new authority by the old.
266 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   The question of proper provi8ion was, however, not allowed

to rest. In 1905 the first Optical Convention was organised

in London for the exhibition of the work of the trades, and

for the holding of discussions upon problems of interest and

importance.

Consequently the position of President of the Optical

Society for that year was likely to entail additional work.

Thompson was chosen, but was very reluctant to accept

the burden of the honour. He would have preferred to

have .seen a member of- the trade in the position, had the
verdict of the Society not been in favour rather of a man of

academic standing for this occasion.

The year before Dr. Glazebrook in his Presidential Address

had dealt with the work of the Society under three heads :

co-operation, education, standardisation. The last of these

was his own special field of work. Though well qualified

to speak upon       the second, Thompson took up a         "quTihtee
different line in  his address, and gave a discourse upon

Early Literature of Optics," illustrated from his own library.

The Convention was held in May 1905, under the Presi

dency of Dr. Glazebrook, and was very successful. The
most important outcome of it was perhaps the stimulus to

the interest in education. Dr. Mullineux Walmsley read a
paper on " The Present Position of Education in Optics,"

quoting frequently from Thompson's lecture to the Society

of Arts. The Convention drafted a resolution in favour of
the establishment of an " Optical Technical Institute,"

and sent a deputation to the L.C.C. Education Authority,

headed by Dr. Glazebrook, with Mr. Conrad Beck as spokes

man for the trade, and Thompson for the Optical Society.
   Five years later, in September 1910, the Education Officer

of the L.C.C. instituted an enquiry. Thompson was one

of the witnesses. This was followed by a conference at

which he was present as one of the nine outsiders invited
to assist. An elaborate report, thirty-seven quarto pages,

was issued in March 1911, and then the matter was dropped.

Meanwhile, the Northampton Institute work went on,

cramped in funds, cramped in equipment, uncertain of the

future.
       OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION                                         267

It was suggested in the extensive report that the more

advanced instruction and the research work would be better

under a separate department, and that the best place for this

was the recently established Imperial College of Science
and Technology of which Sir Alfred Keogh, K.C.B., was

Director. Shortly after the Conference with the L.C.C.

Sir Alfred wrote to Thompson :

                                          "January lltk, 1911.
I" am now returning your copy of The Journal of the
Society of Arts, having read very carefully and more than
once   your paper on Opto-technics   and  the discussion thereon.
       a strange thing that nearly  nine
It is                                     yAesarsfahrasaselaI psaemd,  and
                                                                       con
practically nothing has been done.
cerned the position is this. It is now proposed to realise
your ideal, and to do this by the establishment of a separate
school, or of a special department in Dr. Walmsley's Institu
I Ition. . . . Towards the establishment of the department
can of course do nothing.   only want to say to you now,
that if the Imperial College is required to take a part in the
Iwork that part will be taken.
                                    am prepared to go a long
Iway towards helping this important work.
I Ibe ""cValelderody                       may therefore
       upon to any extent.
                                    can say no more.
       hope action will not be delayed.
       many thanks for giving me the opportunity
                                                                       of

becoming acquainted with the necessities of the case."

   Still no Institute of Technical Optics was founded.
   The English were not alone in their efforts, and in other
countries Thompson was a recognised authority. In 1 902 he
received a letter from a French author, who was preparing
a book on Leg ficoles pour les Opticiens, and who applied to
him for information about certain points in English affairs ;
and in 1910 he was consulted by a representative of the

Bureau of Standards of the Washington Department of
Commerce and Labour when, there too, the question of
improving the quality and increasing the quantity of optical
manufactures and improving facilities for instruction in

technical optics began to exercise the more advanced spirits
of the U.S.A.

   During these years of endeavour to make the cumbersome

machinery of bureaucracy move a little faster, and in a new
268 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

direction, Thompson did a certain amount of other optical

work. In 1901 he delivered at the Exhibition of the Royal

Photographic Society at the New Gallery the fourth annual
" Traill Taylor Memorial Lecture," for the enlightenment

osuf bpjehcottogwraasph"erZsonianl  the essential  science of their art. His
                                    Aberration,"   a defect of lenses that is

of importance to users of cameras. A paper on this subject

was   published also at             Haarlem in Holland     ;    "  and   the same
year  he was preparing               a paper, in Italian,          un   paradosso

ottico," which Professor Righi, as President, proposed should

be read to the Societi Italiana di Fisica, and wrote trying to

persuade Thompson to be present himself at the meeting in

Brescia early in September.

  In 1902 he received certain recognition of his optical

work from the Royal Society in the form of a request to

write the biographical note of the deceased Foreign Member,

Alfred Marie Cornu, a leader in optical research, and one

of the most distinguished scientists of Paris.

Another little bit of biographical work done by Thompson

was the account of William Nicol with which                         he  concluded
his paper to the first Optical Convention "
                                                                   On   the Nicol

Prism and its Modern Varieties." He wrote to Nature,

and obtained a good deal of information in answer to his

questions there.

This paper was given as the one rather formal Evening

Lecture of the Convention, of which most of the time was

devoted to discussions at sectional meetings. At this

Convention, besides acting in his capacity as President of

the Optical Society, Thompson was chairman of the papers

Isub -committee.     Dr. Glazebrook                wrote    to  him that his
                  this position was "              one of  the  various things
appointment to
which will hope advance the cause."

This first Optical Convention, held at the Northampton

Institute, and lasting from a Tuesday to the following

Saturday, brought people from all parts of the county,
and was considered so much of a success that it was decided

to repeat the experiment whenever opportunity ripened.

In 1908 it was quite hoped that a meeting would be held

the next year, and Thompson accepted the nomination as
                 OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION  269

a Vice-President. Sufficient support was, however, not
forthcoming, and it was not until 1912 that plans for the

second Optical Convention matured, and on this occasion
Thompson was elected to serve as President. His near

neighbour, Mr. J. W. Gordon, was the Honorary Secretary,

and they both had a busy time and many consultations

long before the week set apart for the meetings. Having

prepared a statement of the aims and achievements of the

1905 meeting, and obtained the support of nearly all the

important scientific societies, they approached the Board

of Education for leave to use rooms at South Kensington

Museum, and this they eventually obtained, with the

Lecture Theatres of the Imperial College of Science and

Technology for the holding of lectures and discussions.

The exhibition itself was representative of British industries,

and the advance in their position was shown in the catalogue,

which was not only much larger, but was published in

French and in German for the information of foreign pur

chasers of English optical wares. Apart from the industrial

exhibits were some of special historical and educational

i"ntIesraeasct.     Thompson had made himself responsible for an
                 Newton " room, in which he had set up apparatus

modelled upon the descriptions given by Newton in his

Optiks of the arrangements which he himself used in

some of his principal experiments. Towards the expenses

of this exhibit Thompson appealed for and obtained the

financial assistance of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle

Makers, whom he was again serving as chairman of the

Examining Board. He had also sent to the library exhibit
his collection of nearly fifty volumes, " the classics of

optical literature," many belonging to the sixteenth and

seventeenth centuries.

Except for the exhibits of historical interest the display

was confined entirely to British industries. There had been

suggestions of including a Foreign Section, but this was

eventually not carried out. Thompson, who always upheld

the international aspect of science, hoped to have had the

assistance of representative men of other countries, and

wrote both to German and Italian friends, inviting them to
270 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

take part. He was again chairman of the papers sub
acwonimtdhmoPinrttoeefeeos,nsoa"rndTChocekoenTrt,rreiobnnudt"eodTfhteGoeDtohemesiegCtnroicnoavfleLnaOrtgipoetnicPaso,"jloairanisntcopepaxeptesen,r",
sion of his work on the Measurement of Lenses ; these in
addition to his Presidential Address, which was reported
thus in Engineering :

   " The address of Principal S. P. Thompson was a brilliant
inauguration, worthy of the occasion, and abounding in
weighty suggestions. We intend to reproduce it in our next

issue. It was a long address, and its delivery took more
than an hour. It would be useless to attempt to abstract

it ; we can merely pick out a few salient points. Charac
teristically he dealt at first historically with his opening
theme, the value of theory to practical advances, returning
again to ' the two giants, Newton and Huygens,' to illustrate
his points. Modern optics he classified into forty groups
of phenomena, and reviewed progress in various of these,
referring to the books and researches of his brilliant contem
poraries. In conclusion, he pleaded for an institute in
which optics should properly be taught, in which brain-
craft and handicraft were united, not two separate schools
for calculation and for workers, not under the baneful in
fluence of a University. The optical industry was in deadly
earnest in demanding such a centre of optical training."

Before the Convention took place Thompson was very

hard at work  preparing  for publication  h"isgtiraanntslaoftionopotfictsh,"e
Traite de la  Lumiere    of his second

Huygens. This book was ready in time to bring it before

members of the Convention to whom, in order to encourage

them in the study of good optical literature, by agreement

with the publishers, Messrs. Macmillan & Co., it was offered

at half its published price. This work was described in

Science the following year, 1913, in a review signed H. C. :

" Ever since its birth, in 1690, the wave theory of light
...has been adapting itself to environment. Just at the present
moment        an English translation of Christiaan Huygens's

great Treatise on Light is particularly opportune. The fact
that this translation has been made by Professor Silvanus P.
            OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION     271

Thompson is an ample guarantee that it has been done in
a scholarly and sympathetic manner. Two distinct courses
are open to one who wishes to transfer into English the
thought of a foreign author, who lived more than two

hundred years ago : either he may employ the English
phraseology of our own day, or he may use that which he
conceives to have been the current diction of the period in

which the work was composed. In either case he must avoid
anachronisms, and in either case the
                                        problem is difficult. . .  .
It is the second of these alternatives  which Professor Thomp
son has chosen. The result is that the volume, including
its title-page, table of contents, text, paper, binding, typo
graphy, size, and English style, is as nearly as possible what
it would have been if Huygens had lived and worked and

published on the other side of the English Channel. This
is not to be understood as meaning that the translation is
in any sense a literal one, for it is precisely the spirit of the

work which Professor Thompson has caught, and has faith

fully reproduced. In brief the volume is in every way
worthy of the great contributions to science which it
contains."

    This was Thompson's last considerable contribution to

optics. In 1912 he again rendered service to the Spectacle

Makers' Guild, when this body was inaugurating a special

series of lectures on the study of elementary optics and
sight-testing. He delivered the first, on Lenses, showing
experimentally the ill-effects of aberrations, and the methods
of eliminating these for various purposes, a study which,
though admittedly far from the simple optics of the spectacle
dealer, was in his opinion of first importance in optical

industry of the present day. In 1913 he again examined

the candidates, and passed the thousandth diploma since

the scheme was inaugurated.

   In 1915 Thompson thought the time had come to urge

upon the Guild once more the necessity of taking immediate
steps, without waiting for the end of the war, to organise
the teaching of optical science. He considered that the
success of its examination scheme and its position as recog
nised and most ancient head of the industry fitted the
Company to take direct action in this work of national

importance.
272 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   For the war found the English still without a well-equipped

school of technical optics.

   When nothing came of the conference at the L.C.C.
in 1911, hopes were turned in the direction of a Depart
mental Committee of the Board of Education, appointed
to consider the carrying out of the proposals of the Royal
Commission on London University. Thompson knew
many of the members of this committee through his previous
work in university affairs, and as Senator ; but he had
ceased to hope for much there.

    The next move, early in 1914, was taken at the instigation
of Sir Thomas Barlow, when the aid of the British Science
Guild was enlisted to assist in relieving the difficulties of
the Northampton Institute, and to emphasise the needs of
the general trade in optical instruments, as well as those
of the Admiralty and War Office. Thompson was elected
chairman of the Technical Optics Committee of the British
Science Guild, and this body was about to approach the

Development Commissioners in the fateful month, July 1914,

 when Thompson had already gone to the Dolomites for
 an earlier holiday than usual.

    England had long ago depended upon imports of glass of
 all kinds to supplement her scanty home resources. The
 war rendered the shortage alarming, and at first all thought
turned in that directon ; but in December 1914 the Com
 mittee of the Guild once more urged the educational needs

 of the industries upon the authorities.

   In the spring of 1915 the L.C.C. took up the scheme again,

 and Thompson corresponded upon the matter with Dr.
 William Garnett, the technical adviser, and was invited by
 the Education Officer to be present when the representatives
 of the trades assembled to discuss the proposals with him.
 When at last the hoped-for scheme was declared ready for
 adoption, Thompson was missed in the public gathering,
 and his loss deplored by the chairman.

     Apart from his interest in distinctively optical questions

 such as the fosegoing, Thompson showed himself alive to other
 aspects of the study of Light, in particular to the questions in
 volved in the supply of the best possible artificial illumination.
             OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION                        273

He had been early engaged in the electricity versus gas

light controversy and watched the developments of both
with keen interest, writing from time to time to the press
when some particular point was in question on which
he held definite views that others had not expressed

adequately.

    In 1893, the year of the publication of Thompson's Notes

on Photometry, Sir William Preece, as Engineer-in-Chief of

the Post Office, undertook to organise a committee in England

to act with a similar committee in the U.S.A. to consider

and determine if possible the question of a Standard of

Light and a Standard of Illumination, and invited Thompson

                     it,

                                           a
                                             is

                                          I
to become a member of together with Abney, Hopkinson
"Itand Fleming. In this capacity Thompson saw Helmholtz,
for, as Sir William wrote to him,     very important to

get co-operation with our German friends, and will write to

America suggesting the formation of German Committee."

These committees were doubtless the precursors of the

International Photometric Commission, which was active at

Zurich in 1911.

   When asked     in 1906 to deliver "the Working        Men's
Lecture " of the  British Association at York, he chose  as his
subject " The Manufacture of Light," which lent itself well

to experimental illustrations on a large scale, including a

photometer which extended right across the platform. The

lecture was very successful though provoked much less
                     ;             it

                                           J.
enthusiasm than the previous one in Bradford (see pp. 73-4),

it  satisfied at least one of the audience, Mr. W. Graham

of Dalton Hall, Manchester University, who wrote years

afterwards that he did not remember ever listening to so

good a lecture as this one. Thompson published              as a
                                      it
                                                        it
booklet, and afterwards incorporated  as an additional

chapter in the second edition of Light Visible and Invisible.

It sets forth the claims of the rival systems of lighting and

concludes with the paragraph  :

   "Sunlight after all. --No, the cheapest source of light
still remains to be the commonest and most universal, the
light of the sun, which shines alike on rich and poor, and
gives us -- such the admirable economy -- a light of which
                 is

    18
274 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON
...the dominant wave-length is
                                                      just that to which our
eyes have become, in the long evolution of the ages, the
most sensitive. By no artificial process can we manu
facture light so cheaply that it would not be still cheaper
to adjust our social habits to the hours of sunlight, and
do our day's work while it is yet day."

Thompson always hoped the nation would adopt " day

light saving," and lived to enjoy a few weeks of the pro

longed summer evenings.

   Early in   the twentieth           century a movement   "  arose among
              "spiinritsEninglathned  various branches of     illuminating
enterprising
engineering                             and America, who      got together

to discuss matters of interest to both gas and electricity

workers, and published a monthly journal to expound the

position and the problems.

Within two years a society was formed in England,

having the support of a number of well-known men.

Thompson was approached with the request that he would

become the First President of the Illuminating Engineering
Society of Great Britain. The founders sought " one who

is in sympathy with our movement and has taken a wide

interest in light, illumination, and illuminants generally."

From its inception the Society was supported on the

Continent and in America by many corresponding, as well

as ordinary members, and Vice-Presidents ; and at the first

anniversary dinner at the             Cmriatenyrion"  Restaurant there     were
present representatives of                            kindred Societies,"    the

Royal Society of Arts, the Physiological Society, the Royal

Sanitary Institute, as well as the Gas and the Electrical

Engineers.

   In his Inaugural Address, delivered at the first meeting

of the Society in 1909, Thompson set before the assembled

members bis views as to the aims and objects of the Society
and proposals as to its future work.

   " The Society has been founded to bring together all
those who are interested in the problems, practical and
theoretical, of the art of directing and adapting light, that
prime necessity of civilised, as well as of uncivilised exist
ence, to the use and convenience of man. By day the sun,
             OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION                                     275

by night the artificial sources, lamps of all kinds, provide
mankind with light. But to utilise the light so afforded,
properly, without waste, without excess, is an art, a business,
concerned with many more things than the mere production
of light. Few members of the community at large are
producers of light, and those who produce light have many
diverse and often rival processes. But all members of the
community are users of light. And between the producer

and the user there stands a considerable number of persons,
mostly professional men, not middlemen in the industrial
sense, but persons who are concerned with the intermediate
questions of distribution and utilisation for whom no pro
fessional name has hitherto existed, and who have had no
organisation to bring them together to consolidate their
             inotrerteostvociecnetretheairrouonpdiniaoncso. mmTonheitropdiciv--ersaend,anidn
experience
individual                                            that

default of a    menogreineaepripnrgo.'pri"ate  name,        topic    is  called
' illuminating

   He summed up the present position thus : " The
ascertained facts are few --all too few ; their significance is

immense ;     their economic  and social       value great       ";  but the
ignorance    respecting them  generally        is colossal !         He put

before them a few of the facts known, suggested a few

specific questions in which he saw a hopeful field for investiga

tion, and proposed that the Society should work, like the

British Association, by forming technical committees,

charged with the duty of preparing reports on the different

branches of the subject. He went on to deal with the

subject of school-lighting, and referred to the statistics as

to the light arrangements of the L.C.C. schools, and the

reports of ophthalmic surgeons, in particular that of his

brother Dr. Tatham Thompson of Cardiff, on the eyesight

of school-children. He hoped architects would find a place

in their Society. Among the many other problems he

referred to was the long outstanding one of the production
                he"aTt h--eraeccompliinshdeeded,in
light without                                         nature by
 glow-worm.                                           abundance
...of           it                                                 the   firefly
                                                                     of   work
or                     is,
                                                                is
before us.      To sum up, the work before us to diffuse

the light."

The year following, 1910, when invited to lecture at the
276 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Royal Institution, Thompson chose as the subject of his
course, "Illumination Natural and Artificial," and there

elaborated his theme.

Following the suggestions of their President, the Illu

minating Engineers established committees of enquiry

into the questions of street, school and library lighting,

and kept in touch with groups of interested workers abroad.

In January 1912, when a proposal had come from the

American Society to hold an International Conference on

questions of Photometric Nomenclature and Standards, a

meeting of representative persons was summoned to the

National Physical Laboratory, and in the absence (owing

to illness) of Dr. Glazebrook, Thompson presided over their
deliberations, and so once more became associated with

international enterprise. At the time of his death he was

a member of the National Illumination Committee of Great

Britain, which existed as a representative body, affiliated

to the International Commission on Illumination.              In

  At home the Society engaged in useful activities.

1913 Thompson was still the President, and in that capacity

served as Vice-President at the National Gas Congress and
Exhibition held in London under the presidency of Lord

Rayleigh. Conferences were held both this year and the

next with educationists and persons interested in school-

lighting, and with architects on the subject of the lighting

of museums and libraries, and on both occasions Thompson

gave up a Saturday afternoon to open the discussion with

an introductory paper.

Of his work for the Illuminating Engineering Society,

Mr. Leon Gaster, its secretary, wrote in the following terms,1

a few weeks after Thompson's death :

" In presiding at the Annual Meeting, he spoke with all
his accustomed charm and idealism, encouraging us by
pointing out how many of the aims and objects of the
         -- so  19a0d9m--irwaberlye   expressed in his own     Inaugural
Society    in                        gradually being carried  into effect.
Address
We cannot do better than quote from what we now feel to

have been a farewell message :

                1 The Illuminating Engineer (June 1916).
OPTICS AND ILLUMINATION  277

    " ' The whole function of the Society is to produce good
lighting by whatever means, and the fact that Departmental
Committees and officials of the Home Office are now per
suaded, and more than persuaded, that this is a step to be
fostered governmentally is a complete justification for the
existence of the Society. This, however, does not justify
us in folding our arms and saying that our work is done,
but it is an encouragement to go on in the future in the
same direction and improve lighting of all lands for the
benefit of the community.'"

   " To the Illuminating Engineering Society he endeared

himself by his conscientious execution of his duties as
President, and the admirable way in which he smoothed
away conflicting interests -- always cheerful and optimistic,
with a generous recognition of the services of others, and a
kind thought for all with whom he came in contact. He
seemed by instinct to know the right thing to do and say on

each occasion, and it was in no small measure owing to his
influence in the early stages that the Council Meetings of
the Society have, from the very beginning, been carried on
in such an amicable and friendly manner."
                     CHAPTER XIII

THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY

IT was during his student days at South Kensington in

1 876 that Thompson first met the man who became to him

in later years almost as great a hero as was Michael Faraday.

  In the spring of that year he wrote home to his father

narrating how, when one day, in the machinery hall of the

Inventions' Exhibition, which was then going on, he met,

along with some other scientific men whom he knew, Sir

William Thomson of Glasgow, the celebrated Professor of

Natural Philosophy, and great mathematical genius. He

had also heard him discoursing on some electrical apparatus

which was on show.

  In the same year Thompson went during the autumn

to Glasgow to attend the meeting of the British Association

there. At this meeting Sir William Thomson was President

of the Mathematical and Physical Section, and his wonder

fully patient, courteous, and encouraging manner towards

the younger men, who were making their first attempts

to bring forward their own results of researches and experi

ments, made a deep impression on Thompson. From that

time onward he held a high opinion of his character.

Although never privileged to be a worker under Sir William

like Professor Ayrton, Professor Ramsay, and some of his

other friends, yet Thompson soon grew to have the same

warm affection, and the same reverence and admiration

for him, that so many of them felt. During the seventies

and eighties, while he was still an aspirant for success in

research work, he very frequently received most kindly

encouragement and    sig"nSsecoofndintIesraeasct  from him,  whom  he
named privately the                               Newton."

                     278
THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY 279

Sir William Thomson himself a few years later seemed to

feel the attraction of the younger man's keen and earnest

personality.

   He also early recognised the value of his work on optics,
and it has been already shown how much he appreciated his

work on light and radiations.

When the two men met at scientific social gatherings they

sometimes entered into animated discussions on subjects

in which they were both interested, and became quite

oblivious to their surroundings.
   A rather amusing scene arose out of this on one occasion,

which Thompson mentions in his Life of Kelvin.
   Sir William Thomson was President of the Royal Society

from 1890 to 1894, and in 1892 he was made a peer, and

took the title of Baron Kelvin. During that year's office
he and Lady Kelvin were receiving the guests at the Annual

Ladies' night Soiree in the Royal Society's rooms, and

were standing near the door of the room at the top of

the staircase. As soon as Thompson and his wife were

announced, and had shaken hands with their host and

hostess, Lord Kelvin grasped Thompson's arm, and hurriedly

drew him to one corner of the room, and, pointing up towards
an electric light, he said quickly : " Look at that lamp :

Inow h"alf       shut  your eyes  : tell me what you  see." Thompson
                  see  irregular  luminous streaks    extending above
said,
and below." "What are                       d"uesuptpoo?se"d
Thompson explained that he          they                      he asked.
                                    always                    them to be

due to the film of moisture at      "thleeKnse.e"ldvgines"   of the eyelids,
                                                            Where did you
acting as an irregular cylindrical
find that ? Who told you that ?                             asked excitedly.

Thompson was just beginning to say that he had known

it for a long time, and had been giving that explanation

to his students in past years, when Lady Kelvin, who with

Mrs. Thompson had been noticing with some consternation

that several more       guests had  arrived, and were waiting  to be
received, put her      hand on his   arm and said, " William,  there

are people waiting." As Kelvin hobbled back to his former

Ispaoisdi,tio"n  (he was then very lame), in front of the     door,  he
                 want to talk to you about this later."
280 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

Afterwards he told Thompson that he had been reading

some papers belonging to his late brother, James Thomson,

Professor of Engineering at Glasgow, who had died in May

of that year, and had found an explanation of this pheno

menon, which he thought had never been published. Now

he considered it was not worth while to publish as Thomp
it

    a

             it

                            a
                                                        it,
son had been teaching to his students for several years.
   Another time Kelvin met Thompson on the stairs leading

up to the gallery of the Natural History Museum. A
Soiree 'of the Institution of Electrical Engineers was in

progress, and was the most crowded time of the evening,
when hundreds of people were going up and down the broad

staircase. He began asking Thompson about something
which required somewhat lengthy explanation, and the

two absorbed scientists, and their two patient wives, con

tinued to be for some time serious block to the passers

up and down, and were the cause of many smiles of amuse

ment on the part of those who were familiar with Lord

Kelvin's little ways.

  In 1896 the jubilee anniversary of Kelvin's appointment
as Professor at Glasgow University was celebrated. It took

place in June, a time when many universities are not in

session, and was attended by an extraordinary number of

their representatives from all over the civilised world.

Thompson was one of those presenting addresses, and

and he and Mrs. Thompson were present at the ceremonies,

of the presentation, of the granting of honorary degrees to

many of the foreign professors, and the reception of the

delegates and their friends in the Bute Hall by Lord and
Lady Kelvin in the evening.

   Three years later Kelvin retired from his professorship,

and went to live at Netherhall, Largs, a house which he had

built for himself. After this he was much more frequently

in London, and had house in Eaton Place, where he some
                      a
times spent several months of the year.
                        it
During Thompson's Presidency of the Institution of

Electrical Engineers        was his pleasant duty to inform

Lord Kelvin that he had been elected an honorary member

of the Institution.
THE WB1TING OF THE KELVIN BIOGPAPHY 281

   He received the following letter, dated January 17th, 1899 :

  I" warmly appreciate the personal kindness of members
Iof the Institution of Electrical Engineers in wishing me to

be its first honorary member, and beg you to convey
to the Institution my cordial thanks for the resolution to
confer on me this distinction, which you tell me has been

Iado"ptevda. lue the honour very highly, and shall ever continue

to be fully interested in the work of the Institution and
its ever-increasing usefulness."

  In 1 904, when Colchester was having its Annual Oyster

Feast, and the Mayor was anxious to include several elec
tricians at/ the dinner, he asked Thompson, who was a
personal friend, to try and get Lord Kelvin to honour the

feast by his presence.
   Kelvin replied from Largs, September 8th, 1904.

I"DEA"R         THOMPSON,      at an      oyster     feast  before.  Lord
                 have been

Rayleigh, who was then Lord-Lieutenant of Essex, was at

it also, and it really was very interesting and amusing. It
has also the merit of tune-honoured antiquity. Will you
thank the Mayor for his kindness in thinking of inviting me

Ithis year 1 It would have been a great pleasure to me if
could have accepted, but my whole free time will be taken

by several important and unavoidable engagements in

Scotland and England at different times during the month
(October), which make it practically impossible for me to

have the pleasure of being one of his guests at the Gyster
IFea"st
          this  year.    less  and  less  satisfied  with   the  orthodox
          am    feeling

explanation of the radiometer : that the motion is due

solely to the difference of temperature on the two sides of

each vane, and its influence on the molecular impacts of the

enclosed air. Do you know if any one has published any
          with respect to
thi"ngIt   is exceedingly      the cup     radiometer  ?    difference     of
                               difficult  to see how
                                                       the

                                 could be applied to this.
                               cup-radiometer since 1881,
I Item" perhaatuvree
                  explanation                                        when
                had a little
was staying with Helmholtz in Berlin, and bought it there.

I Idon't remember his having any explanation for it. had
the impression that its action was not very satisfactory ;
282 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Ibut yesterday and to-day here, have been trying it and
finding it just about as sure as an ordinary radiometer,
        it does not go round so fa"stY.ours
though

                                                           very"  truly,
                                                                  KELVIN."

Thompson replied to this on September llth :

I" DEA" R     LORD KELVIN,                 the  Mayor  of  Colchester  of  your
              have written to
Idecision. know he will be sorry that you cannot come to

the"  Oyster   Feast.                      question,  the cup form     of radio
      As to   the radiometer

meter has never seemed to me to depend on exactly the same
facts as the ordinary one that has one set of faces blackened.

In the case of the blackened faces, something happens at
the face which, whether it penetrated deeply or not, must
be equivalent to a rise of temperature. Possibly it is con
fined only to a very thin layer of molecules. May it not be
somewhat similar to that which occurs in the phospho

rescence of rubies (for example) in a Crookes' tube ? Is

not the surface layer of molecules, which is emitting this
pho"sTphhaortescetnhtesleigmhto, leaccutleusalalyreainndthteruslaymereidntehnoste? vibration
              is,

                        if
as they would be the temperature of the whole mass were
to be raised to 800° C., or more. Then the layer of mole
cules on a radiometer vane must be raised in temperature
by the radiation that falls on them, and those surfaces that
do not reflect much of the radiation must be thus raised

in temperature more than those that are good reflectors.
But then not even a blackened radiometer will revolve, unless

there within reasonable distance an opposing bulb wall.
      is
                  is
                                         is
The same vanes that run round quickly in a small bulb
run round quite slowly in a large bulb, with the same

vac"uHumenceanwd heunndoenr e  the         same illumination.   cup-radiometer,
                               goes         to the case of the

where there     no apparent reason for any difference of

temperature between a convex and a concave face of equal
polish, the only thing that not the same for the two faces

(neglecting any question of direct ether pressure)                     is  the

geometrical distance between the vane surface and the
bulb surface."

   Only on one occasion did Thompson have the pleasure
of receiving Lord Kelvin in his own home at Hampstead.
THE WEITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY 283

It was rather too far off for an evening visit, with all

Kelvin's numerous engagements ; but he and Lady Kelvin
were able to attend an afternoon reception, which Thompson

had arranged in order to introduce his friend M. Henri
Becquerel of Paris to some of the members of the Physical

Society, and there was a numerous gathering of scientific

worthies, whom Kelvin enjoyed meeting.

  It was not until Kelvin had passed the four-score years

that Thompson began to entertain the idea of writing a

biography of him.

   The great success and appreciation with which his Life
of Faraday had met led him to believe that he could
make a similar success with a biography of one even more
renowned in the scientific world.

  In March 1906 he summoned up courage to approach

Lord Kelvin, then living in London, on the subject, sending

him at the same time a copy of his Life of Faraday.
   The following was the reply he received :

  I" DEA" RThTreHeOMPdSaOyNs, ago

Ion Michael Faraday, and
Iinterest and much pleasure.
                                         received your beautiful book
                                                              it with great
                                         have been  reading   a thoroughly
                                                    believe,
                                         It gives,
truthful view of his scientific work and of his life. As you
kindly told me you had been thinking it possible you

I Imight wish to undertake writing an account of my own

scientific work, can say that would feel complete confi
dence that in your hands it would experience thoroughly

satisfactory treatment. If you are inclined to talk over

the matter just now, shall we meet one of these days, at
any time that would suit you -- either morning or about tea-

time after the working day is "oYvoerur?s always truly,
                                                            "KELVIN."

Soon after this it was agreed between Kelvin and Thomp

son that the latter should come and have interviews with

him, and talk about the scientific work done in the early

days at Cambridge and Glasgow.

theDsuerin"gsitttihnegs,s"priansg    of     1906   Thompson had several of
                                   he    called   them, and afterwards made
284 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

voluminous notes of the grand old man's reminiscences.
Then, when the London season was over, Kelvin went to his

home at Largs, and it was not until late in October that they
were able to meet again. Kelvin wrote to Thompson on

October 1 8th from Largs, in answer to him :

   I" Many thanks for your letter.            was glad to receive it
Iyesterday.        do not think my Siphon Recorder can help
in respect to wireless telegraphy. An ordinary relay is more
suitable. The only merit of my Siphon Recorder would be
to work with a less strong current. Its merit for submarine
telegraphy is that it indicates continuously varying strength
of "cuWrreenatre;  and this    is not wanted in wireless telegraphy.
                   going to     London on Tuesday next for the,
IAutumn Session. do not know how long we may be kept,
Ibut shall hope to see you before we leave, and to talk over
Helmholtz and Clausius and some other interesting subjects."

   So a few more sittings took place in the autumn, and

again in the spring and early summer of the following year.
   KInelvTinhioamnaps"ona'sre
"                              note-book for   1907 many  entries  headed
                                to be found,  and he had  begun    to plan

his book, which was intended to be in one volume, and was

to be published by Messrs. Macmillan. The titles of the

nine chapters of which it was to consist were outlined, and

a list made of the plates which were to illustrate it.

   He used to put down lists of the names of persons from

whom reminiscences of Kelvin might be got. Some of these,

when acquired, were very characteristic of the man. For

instance, Sir William Crookes told how, when Kelvin first

saw his radiometer, he sat in silence gazing at it for an hour.

Another story was of a meeting of the British Association,

at which Crookes had read a paper in Section A, Sir William

Thomson presiding. Various remarks had been made,

Iand then the next business was taken.        "OOnht,h"e hseamsaeide,ve"nionhg,

Crookes met Sir William at dinner.
Mr. Crookes, wish you had been in the Section to-day :
Ithere was such a beautiful paper read. It would have
interested you so much.             looked all round the room for
Iyou, but                                           "
                   couldn't    see  you  anywhere         (Crookes had
                                                   !

been on the platform beside him.)
THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY 285

   At the British Association at Leicester in 1907, when
Thompson was presiding in the Engineering Section, he
again saw a good deal of Lord Kelvin, who, despite his age
and his indifferent health, was entering with surprising
activity into the discussions.

   But this was the last occasion on which they met. After
the Kelvins had returned to Largs in the autumn, Lady
Kelvin was struck down with a paralytic seizure, from which
she only partially recovered. The shock of this sudden
illness of his wife, and anxiety about her, were too much
for the aged Lord Kelvin, who fell ill and died in December.

    He was buried in Westminster Abbey, and an immense
concourse of scientific men was present. Delegates from
Societies and Institutions followed the coffin in procession,
and among these Thompson represented, by special request,
the Associazione Elettrotecnica Italiana, of which he was a

member.

   For a long time --about six months --it was very difficult
for Thompson to make much progress with his biography.
Owing to Lady Kelvin's state of health, he could not obtain
permission to borrow papers and letters which were necessary
to his work. In January of 1908 he was in correspondence

with Dr. J. T. Bottomley, nephew of Lord Kelvin. There

seems to have been a desire expressed by the family that
Thompson's book should be the official biography of Kelvin.

   In answer to an enquiry from Dr. Bottomley about the

scope of his proposed book, he wrote as follows :

    " The plan which was adopted from the first was a one-
volume book, and there was no intention, if it should have
been published in Lord Kelvin's life-time, of printing in it
any considerable number of letters. Nor was it the inten
tion to give any deeply scientific analysis of Lord Kelvin's

Ipapers, as it was to be suited to non-mathematical readers.

The very last time saw him, he told me he had himself
been setting down some further notes for me."

    The decision that the book was to be a full biography of
Kelvin threw on Thompson a heavy responsibility and a
most difficult task, which occupied all his spare time and
most of his holidays for the next two years. Of course,
286 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

much other work and writing had to be laid aside until

its completion.

   His friend Mr. M. F. O'Reilly (Brother Potamiaii) wrote
him in January 1908 from Manhattan College :

   " We have lost our Mentor : our great instructor, who
instructed as much by his noble example as a Christian

Igentleman as he did by his writings, lectures, and discourses.

  was glad to learn that you will do for Lord Kelvin (I prefer
the plain name) what you have so beautifully done for
Faraday. My wonder is how you get time to accomplish

so much."

For several months Thompson struggled with the diffi

culties of finding out the facts of Kelvin's early life and

work from the few surviving contemporaries whom he was

able to trace. At last an application to the Registrar of

St. Peter's College, Cambridge, for some information was

by him passed on to one of the Fellows of the College,

Mr. J. D. Hamilton Dickson, who was an old pupil of

Lord Kelvin's. This was a most fortunate occurrence for

Thompson, for Mr. Hamilton Dickson was a most enthu

siastic admirer of Kelvin, in fact regarded him with some

thing amounting to hero-worship. He replied to Thompson's

enquiry in the most kind and friendly manner, and offered

to do anything he could to help him in his great under

taking.

Thompson was delighted, and used to pour out questions

relating to all sorts of events which occurred in Kelvin's

student days in Cambridge. His first letter to Mr. Hamilton

Dickson was written in June 1908 :

I " DEA" RFroSmIR, your exceedingly kind note on the postcard,
  infer that you conjectured that my enquiry about Professor
I IFuller was connected with my biography of Kelvin. This
is so.   am much obliged for the reference. But am much

more indebted to you for the additional information as to
                            sent to              in 1846.
testimonials which he       for me.              be most grateful
This is indeed a ' find
Ithe"                    '           Glasgow
                                          shall

for the sight of the copy of the testimonials, which shall
be returned at the earliest opportunity. With many
thanks for your kindness."
THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY 287

   During the early summer Thompson paid visits to
Glasgow and to Newcastle to see the nephews of Lord Kelvin,
and to try to gather up all kinds of information about his
family and friends.

    He overworked very much at that time, and was ordered
to take a long holiday during the vacation. He had perforce
to obey, and went for six weeks to Switzerland with his wife
and family, living among the high Alps at Axalp and Stein
in the Oberland, and devoting his time to botanical rambles

and water-colour sketching.
    He returned to London refreshed, and wrote to Mr.

Hamilton Dickson on September 8th :

   " If, as is probable, this letter will find you away from

I ICambridge, please do not attempt to answer it until you

return. write while have the leisure, for with the end of

I ISeptember comes the [Administrative] deluge upon me.

First wish to tell you that have definitely identified the
' Field ' whom Lord Kelvin mentioned as a member of the
' Fleet.' He was the Rev. Thomas Field, of St. John's,
who took the Classical Tripos in 1844, and was for many
years Tutor at John's."

   Then follow about a dozen questions about matters which
could only be found out by hunting up registers at Cam
bridge. Mr. Dickson was untiring in his help, and unsparing
in his devotion to the small details of information which
Thompson required in order to picture the surroundings of

his hero's college life.

He wrote again on September 17th :

   " Again you  have laid me under  obligations, and things
                clearer. But there  are some outstanding
are becoming
points."

   Then follows another string of questions about the

Cambridge British Association Meeting of 1845.

   In January 1909 he writes :

  "I have your list of Lord Kelvin's distinctions --it is

I Iconsiderably fuller than mine, but think can add one or

two entries. Pray let me keep it a few days to verify the
288 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

list point by point --or rather, to check it against mine.
ITh"anktsakaelsothfeoropinpfoorrtmunaittiyontoabooffuetr         in Peterhouse.
                                                          rooms  literary trifle that
                                                          you a

may interest you."

Mr. Hamilton Dickson replied :

I" cannot rest till I thank you for your kind letter and
I Iits two enclosures.
                      know shall enjoy reading both --
Petrus for his own sake, and the pamphlet on Petrus for the
sake of its writer ; for is it not well known that its writer is
the most learned on all that deals de magnete 1 Thank you
again heartily."

A few days later he wrote again :

" Your Petrus de Magnete is very interesting --both the
Ilovely little bookie (rubricated by S. P. T.) and your capital
monograph on it and him.  have read the most of the

monograph, but not so much of the Petrus : however, that
is a treat to come."

    As the months went on their correspondence became
more and more frequent, and to save time they began to
imitate Thomson and Tait's manner of addressing one

another, and wrote "0. T." or "0. D.," ending up with

the word " Salaams," of which Thompson wrote :

    " This convenient orientalism saves a lot of rigmarole

Iof ' Kind regards ' and ' believe-mes,' and for the friends to

whom address it means far more than such convention
alities mean to Tom, Dick, Harry, Brown, Jones, and
Robinson. Non ragionar di lor."

   In July Thompson visited Cambridge, and gathered much

information. His letter to Mr. Hamilton Dickson after his
return must be quoted :

  "I had a curious journey back from Cambridge on
IMonday evening. Alone, most way in the compartment.

    was trying to read proofs, and to piece together, and
carve on memory, the hundred and one things that you had

Itold me. And all the while was haunted by an idea that
I couldn't throw off, and that recurs each day since, that
THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY 289

you, and not I, ought to be writing this biography of the
wonderful old man. You, who knew him at far more close
quarters than I. You, who knew Glasgow, and the old
College, and White's, and the development of the recorder,
and the Lalla Rookh ; and who knew Cambridge at first
hand, and for so many years in the very spot that knew him.
IAnd yet it is I, and not you, who is to be supposed to know
all about him.   shall have to send you, when they are

Icomplete, the proofs of the parts that relate to Cambridge,
and to the Laboratory corps.       tremble at the crop of

innocent blunders that  lie there  awaiting the   sbalunenopef)n"cil  of
the master who knows    (maestro
                                   di coloro chi

   In January Thompson sought help from Professor

Kennelly of Harvard :

" Your kind greetings for the New Year duly arrived.
Mrs. Thompson bids me to add her acknowledgements to
Mrs. Kennelly and yourself. We sent out no cards this
winter, for my mother-in-law Mrs. Henderson, who has
lived with us for many years, died just at the end of
November, and with this upset, and the great pressure on

Ime in trying to complete the Kelvin biography, had no
        to design a greeting to send to   our friends.
Itim"e   find myself in a difficulty as   regards some   of  the
American honours of which Lord Kelvin was recipient. So,

Iwanting to make the list as complete as possible, venture
Ito trouble you with the enquiry whether you can help me

to complete the list. believe Lord Kelvin received several
hon. degrees in 1902,  his last visit to  the"           Did not
Harvard give him an    honorary degree          States.
                                           ?

  At the end of July 1909 Thompson wrote to Sir William

Crookes, whose portrait had just been painted for the Royal
Society by Mr. E. A. Walton, R.S.A., brother-in-law of

Thompson :

I" DEA" BMaSyIB  WILLIAM,      briefly ?  Your letter does not
                  reply quite
Isay what hour you are leaving for Sark.
                                                am going down
to Wenhaston for my holiday next Tuesday, and shall see
IEdward Walton that evening : the house we have taken

being next door to his. So will find out what he wishes.
But if you leave for Sark before a letter can reach you, then

19
290 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

I think it will       be all  right  wifatnhteingp--ortmrauicthiswlaenfttinlogck--edto  up as
Iyou suggest.          have                                                             come
                              been

Iover to see you and the portrait. But for three weeks past
  have simply abandoned every other engagement whatever,
Ito stick                                        chapters of  my                        Lord
                                                  of getting  the                       done
Kelvin.
        toItthweaws rmitiyngonoflythcehalanscte                    Life of
                                                                    thing
this summer. And even now shall have to finish two of

the" Icthatpatkeerss  at Wenhaston.     write the connective          tissue,
                      a weary time to
even after all the events and principal paragraphs are com
pleted in themselves. Nothing but a steady grind, with all
reference books and entries round one, will enable one to do

Ithis. So have been a hermit for the last three months
I(partially) and totally since July 8th. But for this would
have certainly dropped in. About one-third of the book
is in type already."

  From St. Michael's, Wenhaston, August llth, he wrote

to Mr. Bailey Saunders :

    I" believe this is the correct date --but one loses count of
time in the lazy days of a real summer, and in rural seclusion,

Ieven though one has one's work with one, as have with my
IKelvin biography, on the last tenth of which am still
perforce at work. My immediate purpose in writing is to
draw upon your long-suffering friendship for a reference

Ithat here is totally inaccessible. You are a Hegel scholar,

though fancy not a Hegelite-- at least, not a bald-headed
one. But you probably know where to find in his philosophy
a passage in which he attacks Newton's theory of planetary

movement, according to universal gravitation, and says

something about the planets not being pulled this way or that
Iway like so many stones, but that they move of themselves in their
orbits like the blessed gods.           want the passage itself (either
in
    German   or English)      and the   reference to page and volume.
It  used to  rouse Lord
                              Kelvin    to a white heat of fury. ' If

these, gentlemen, be his physics, what must his metaphysics
         '
Ibe "?       how            your                                      You used
        And           does        opus  magnum   progress          ?

to say mine would be out before yours.                        can't by any

possibility be out before November : and the printers are

going very slowly."

    Mr. Bailey Saunders replied from the Athenaeum :
THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY 291

      " Your letter reaches me here on my way back to East

I Ibou"rnewiosnhMonday.      claim  to            be  a real  Hegel  scholar,             and
                    had any
                         to answer                                              --Thweasotnhley
were then enabled         have read               --ymouarnyquyeesatrisona. go

Iwork of his which
IPhasomenologie der Geiste (I am not sure that have even
Igot the title right), and cannot recollect anything about
INewton therein, though have heard of Kelvin's famous
Idictum on Hegel's physics. Nor can find any one to help
Ime to the utterance of that philosopher, whose works should
Idoubtless seek in vain in the library here.                         have, in fact,
just been to look for his name in the Catalogue, where of
cou"rsYeouit
              is emphatically   not.                  in November     ;         my opus
              will get out the  biography
Iwil"l
        appear when ?     das weiss der kuk-kuk !             jubilant          now       as
                         weather, you must be as
        If you like hot

      am depressed. Please remember me very kindly to the
verehrte Frau Professor.

  I" P.S. --Thanks for the Melanchthon letter references.
will look it up in the Corpus Reformatorum."

   Thompson, in another letter to Mr. Bailey Saunders on
September 21st, writes from home :

  I" am still      labouring at     the two remaining                  chapters           of
                  plod --dates,     facts, letters, but              not a bit            of
Kelvin --pure
sci"enVcoeluomr ephIi.loissoppahgyedinuptheamnd,
                                                  ninedeedxeedd,toVcoolummpleetIeI.thise  tale.
Ififths in type, and partly paged.                                                        four-

                                                      want    three             weeks of
Iuninterrupted time --but doubt whether                        shall             have so

many days without distractions. We are all well. Come
and see us when you are in town. Salaams."

   Thompson, in fact, had accomplished an enormous amount

of work on the book during the six weeks at Wenhaston,
but at the expense of needed rest of brain, and exercise.
Proofs were pouring in all the time, and during the glorious
weather of that summer he spent hours at a time sitting
out on the lawn correcting them. The daughters and
nephews and nieces found it difficult to persuade him to join

any of their excursions or picnics.

   He- went one expedition quite willingly, and that was to
meet Mr. Hamilton Dickson, who was staying a few miles
292 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

away near Dunwich, and he, later, kindly came over to Wen-
haston, so that they were able to consult verbally over many
difficult points. Mrs. Thompson's services were also

requisitioned to do the indexing.

   One of those who had known Kelvin for many years was
Sir Joseph Swan, and Thompson had some correspondence
with him while at Wenhaston. On September 9th he

wrote :

"DEA"RYoSuIrR  JOSEPH,   interesting                     letter puts me deeply
               long and
I Iinto your debt.
Ibiography.          presume am at liberty to use it in my
               return the letter about Varley : it is the

more interesting, because                      Varley    (this  Varley--   Samuel
Alfred, not Cromwell -- ) had                  attacked   him   in 1888-9  in The

Electrical Review."

With Professor Chrystal, the Astronomer Royal for

Scotland, he had also considerable correspondence about
the publication of his letters to Kelvin. Writing to
Thompson, Professor Chrystal said :

  I" must not neglect to congratulate you on the approach

ing completion of your book. You seem to enjoy a happy
share of the great energy that to the very last characterised
your great namesake without a ' p '."

  It happened once or twice during Thompson's career,

that he was confounded with his great namesake. The
first time was when he was Vice-President of the Frankfort
Exhibition, when the portrait of Sir William Thomson was
displayed in the German newspapers as that of Professor

Silvanus Thompson. Sometimes, too, he was supposed to

be his son.
In October Thompson sent portions of his book in proof

sheets to various people for correction and criticism before

f"inTahlleyrmfiondisyhninagmiicts f"orwtahse,  press.  The difficult chapter  on
                                               among   others, submitted to   Sir

Oliver Lodge, who wrote :

I"DEA"RThSaInLVkANyoUuS,for sending me Chapter XXITI of your
book.  have read it (rather hastily it is true, in the train)
THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY 293

with considerable admiration for the way you have treated
a most complicated affair. The essential feature is that he
started with dynamical determination, and found that it
      him into
led"  Whether   a cul-de-sac.      take      the       same  view  it is not for
                posterity will
me to say, but that it appears thus to us                    think, sufficiently
                                                       ; is,I

                                                                            is
and fairly brought out         in  your chapter and that                                   what,
    seems to me, ought         to  be brought out -- of course                             in an
I it
    IIentirely complimentary .manner."

          ifHe then went on to make various small and helpful criti
cisms on the chapter, closing with the remarks
                                             a
                                                                      is : :

                                                                            is

                                                                      I
" It seems to me thoroughly good for its purpose, and,
though long, not dull. Posterity will be grateful to you,

eve"n         the present-day public are not.                Length                        part of
            would not attempt to shorten it.
the essence of the Kelvin prolificness."

Sir George H. Darwin, of Cambridge, wrote

" have read the portion of the Life with interest.
entirely agree with you in
  think you will make the          the omission of           cIetrtainanpaasrsdaugoeuss.
                                   Lite success.

undertaking."

Thompson's volume did not issue from the publishers

until January 1910. The book had been eagerly expected

by Kelvin's many admirers, and from host of them
                                                       a

                                                                               it

received a most flattering and warm reception.

Scores of letters from scientific men were sent to the

author. Many of them ranked the biography with the best

biographies of modern times. Professor Perry considered

as good as Trevelyan's Life                       Macaulay, others com
it                                           of of
                                                                                        :
paredI        with Morley's Gladstone. Thompson's old friend

         it
Sir William Preece, F.R.S., wrote in March 1910

   "    have been    tphlreoausguhre.youIrt  Life      Kelvin with great care,
and   with infinite                                    the very highest credit
                                             reflects

on your labour, your skill, and the marvellous gift you have
of picking the plums out of the pudding, and dressing them
with tasty sauce and ornamenting them with clear, bold
English.      found most interesting, for knew him in his
              I                                        I

                           it

Atlantic days, and we were always on very ultimate and
294 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON v

Ifriendly relations.  am proud to have commenced my
own career under the powerful influence of Faraday, and
Ito end it under the aegis of Kelvin, for am now nearly
Iplayed out.    am now in my seventy-seventh year.
IYour proofs have been very carefully read, for have come
across extremely few errors. Doubtless you will soon have

I Ia second edition, and send the few points have noted.
IThere is nothing admire in your book more than your
handling so many intricate questions, without the aid of his

own language."

   The criticism of the book in the press was extremely
favourable, though in many papers its scientific basis was a

stumbling-block to the reviewers, who contented themselves
with picking out various tit-bits of lighter vein, and leaving
serious discussion of the work to more technical journals.

   Sir Oliver Lodge reviewed it in The World. He wrote :

" An extremely difficult duty was committed to Pro
fessor Silvanus Thompson when he undertook to produce
Ia popular and readable Life of Lord Kelvin, and admirably
has he executed the task.   cannot see how any one could
hav"eLodrodneKeitlvbinetthears. been fortunate in his biographers. . . .

Now the main incidents of his life, and the general tenor of

his thought and work, have been narrated with consummate
industry and skill by the present author."

    The Outlook said :

   " This work is a distinguished savant's biography of one
greater than himself ; a book therefore primarily for men

of science, largely made up of letters and discussions dealing
with matters that to the general reader are much more hope

lessly incomprehensible than Greek. But there is through
out it abundant humanity and the fascination of a trans
cendent mortal life ; nor would we leave the impression
that the volumes are without a strong salt of the gaiety that
goes with high activities, "g- y

The Saturday Review said :                  . .<

   " Professor Thompson has treated the two phases of

Kelvin's life as few men would be competent to do, and
THE WRITING OF THE KELVIN BIOGRAPHY 295

with equal skill. He has combined the refractory elements
into a narrative which, for all its bulk, its immense range of

time and material,   and its                   multifariousness of    topics, is
not only smooth and  literary,                                       and vivid.
                                               but more -- artistic

Professor Thompson has given us a real and great bio

graphy ; and, though Lord Kelvin's work required so much

dry, technical description, his personality pervades every
thing in the book, and shines brilliantly through it."

  In 1911 Thompson received a letter from Mr. Sidney Lee,

editor of The Dictionary of National Biography, in which
he wrote :

" Would you render the Dictionary the great service
                                               of Lord Kelvin ?
of "coYnoturirbufutilnl gbitohgerampheymoiirs  the standard authority  for  his

Ilife, and it is only right that the summary account which

we need should be from your pen. trust you may see your
way to accept this proposal."

   Thompson wrote the article as requested ; it was not
the only one which he contributed to the Dictionary.
                            CHAPTER XIV

                        HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS

  I" have indeed lived nominally fifty years, but deduct out of them the
Ihours have lived to other people, and not to myself, and you will find me
still a young fellow. For that is the only true Time, which a man can
                                                                                         though
properly call his own,  that which he haa all to himself ; the rest,
in some sense he may                                                                     hia." --
ELI A ; Extract copied  be  tshaeid"  to live it,  is other   pe"opfloer's   time,  not
                        in            little blue  note-book                1911.

 FROM his earliest years Thompson had acquired the botanical
 bent of his family. Of butterfly and bird he never made a
 special study, and had no claims to be considered an all-
 round naturalist ; but in the Yorkshire dales he became

 thoroughly at home with the British Flora, and, as school
 children, he and his brothers and sisters knew every haunt
 of the rarer plants within a considerable radius of Settle.

 They were familiar, too, with the many fascinating geological
phenomena that are characteristic of the region of the

great Craven Fault, where the Mountain Limestone presents
curious structural and stratigraphical features, with its dry

c"v"aaAcvllhleeusuymsrn,asnPi,t"dost.ti"at"srnhsoErbarbnididngbcehcaaksnsmd, sitF"slowwliakitneegrfa"llWsGeapallni,ndgitusnGdeeilxrlgt"eronusanivnded
   In the summer of 1890 Thompson with hia wife and

small girls spent the holiday with his sisters at Settle and
he once more explored the old haunts. That year he

identified in a new locality Arenaria Gothica Fries, a species
his sister Rachel had earlier discovered close to Ribble

Head Station. Dozens of collectors were reported as
having come in search of the rarity that year, and there were
fears lest it should meet with extinction. But in 1905

Thompson went again, accompanied by his daughters Helen

                                                   '296
                          HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                  297

and Dorothea, to seek the little white flower, guided by the

entries on the family maps, and found it still extant.

  In 1890 Professor Meldola and his wife also spent their

holiday in Settle, seeking moths, so there were joint excur

sions of the colleagues. Thompson determined if possible

to solve one of the local mysteries, namely the course of the

stream which flows out of Malham Tarn (one of the largest
sheets of enclosed water in Yorkshire), and, after pursuing

its way over the moors for about half a mile with slight

gradient, suddenly sinks into stony ground and disappears.

A dry valley, once a considerable watercourse, leads on

downwards about a mile, and then ends abruptly at the top

of Malham Cove, a limestone cliff over 300 feet in height,

from the foot of which issues a stream about equal in bulk

to the Tarn waters, but popularly believed to come from some

o"thAeirrehseoaudrc,e" ,  the Tarn waters being supposed    to  issue at
                          a perennial spring in the middle  of  a green

field about a mile below the Cove.

He sent a paper to the Geological Section of the British

Ahesshoacdiamtioandeth"aOt nyetahre,  in which he described the experiment
                                      Sources of the River Aire." Professor

Meldola had suggested to him that he should use uranin,

the soluble form of the dye fluorescein, of which a minute

quantity colours without polluting the water. Thompson

made satisfactory tests with this in a simple case of a known

underground course of a stream, but when he set watchers

at the two suspected issues of water at Malham Cove and

Airehead, and sent his dye stuff down the sink-hole, he

obtained no results. The Association Meeting was suffi

ciently interested to appoint a committee to investigate the

matter, Thompson being secretary ; but, on applying to the

owner of the Tarn, they were informed that investigations

had already been made by Bradford naturalists, who, on

allowing a sudden rush of water out of the Tarn, saw an

increase in flow at Airehead about eighty minutes later,

and not till about an hour after did it show at the Cove,

pointing to complicated passages and lakes in the subter

ranean connections.

  In 1905 Thompson rambled over the old district delightedly
298 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

pointing out its peculiarities to the younger generation,

with whom he discussed the possibilities of investigating,

on strictly scientific lines, the ebb and flow of the famous

well near Settle.

Elsewhere such interests added zest to his excursions

on which he always sought company, and was only rarely

and accidentally alone.

From a letter to his wife :                   " Til I 11INUKS- WAl.H.
                                                           "April 1900.
  I" This is Sunday.

wards up the forest
                            ...   After breakfast started              south
                                 --a mere mule-track -- to a
                           road                                        Forst~
... Ihaus on the ridge above.
                                              reached the pine woods,
carpeted at every clearing with undergrowth of hepaticas --
the ground was just blue with them in places, like the prim
roses in the clearings of our woods, only blue instead of

I Iyellow. In a few places they grew pink instead of blue.

Also noticed a blue rush which should have called,
l.ii-.nla cerulea, if there is such a plant. Then in the forest

clumps of the delicious Daphne Mezereon, and here and
Ithere a yellow flowering tree that have never seen before ;
I It"hiAnfkteirt
                must be a sort of Rhamnus.           amongst     the       pines
                   had walked about an hour
Iand oaks at the top, came on a patch of the most glorious
Ipurple anemones --the Ancemone jndsatilla.
                                                                 enclose a

couple of them. They are indescribably beautiful as seen
Iin "mashsa. d  They are said to grow occasionally          in
                a fine round on the high ground.                 England.
                                                            It   resembles

the Schwarzwald a good deal, and particularly in having

Ieve"ryTwhheegreeoleoxgcicealllenftormWaetgiwoeniseisrscutroioussh.ow
                                                       the routes.

                                                     At first thought
Iit oolite ; but in places there is red marl with satin-spar
am"onTgheitg. irls  think  it must belong to the Keuper beds.
                    would
hepaticas. At any          have  gone   just  wild   o"ver  the  beds  of  blue
                           rate  their   pa   did !

   A few years later Thompson spent a week of his Easter
holiday in the New Forest, exploring on foot in company
with his daughter Dorothea. In one of the clearings they
came upon a whole bed of a small flowering shrub, which he

could not place at all, and which was identified by the
authorities at Kew as an American species sometimes grown
             HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                      299

in gardens, but never recorded before as a wild plant, and

not easily accounted for in the middle of the forest.

Part of the joy of the holidays in Switzerland arose from

the glory of the flowers of the Alps, though in August it was

only on the heights well above the tree-line that these

beloved blue gentians could be found, and more than once

the season had been so advanced that there remained none

of the rich red of the Alpenrose for foregrounds to sketches.

The family had a particularly happy time with' flowers in

1907, when they got away early in July to Axalp, above

Lake Brienz, where the snows were longer than usual in

retreating, so that the full glory of unmown alpine hay-fields

was theirs to enjoy, until Thompson was due back at the

British Association. On returning again next year to the

same place, half the charm had gone with the flowers, and
it was only at the higher levels that Thompson was tempted

to sketch on the few fine days during that wet August. Some

thousand feet above the hotel, and above the steep tree-clad

slope, stretched gradually ascending alps to the foot of a
great range of cliffs. An immense fall of rock had, perhaps

some forty years earlier, strewn many acres of the alp with

a belt of stony fragments that created a perfect garden,

with damp sheltered nooks and warm dry banks. Fir-trees

perched themselves in all manner of unexpected ledges and

crannies, and rich patches of Alpenrose lent the warm tinge

needed to relieve the cold colouring of the green and the

grey. Hither one fine morning came Thompson armed

with his boards and palette, and Dorothea with a volume

of poems. There they spent a whole day, one always

memorable ; for he came down in the evening carrying
no less than three sketches of the stone-fall, perhaps the

most living   of  all his  tree  cpaitcst'usre"s,OdaendonwaithGrheicsianmeUmronr,y"
stored with  the  music    of K

which Dorothea had been reading over to him while he

painted.

  All through his life Thompson associated with people of
the same bent as himself. In early days he was a member

of the Bristol Naturalist Society, and after his removal to

London he became connected with the Hampstead Scientific
300 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Society, of which he was a vice-president and president,

though he was not often present at its meetings, which were

held the same night in the week as the members' meetings

at the Royal Institution.
   Through Professor Meldola he was introduced to the

Essex Field Club, in whose autumn ramble and fungus foray
in Epping Forest he occasionally joined, taking with him

his youngest daughter Irene, who was the keenest naturalist

of the four, and who acquired considerable skill in repre

senting her plants, fossils, and insect pets in water-colour

sketches.

  In 1907 Thompson was President of the South-Eastern

Union of Scientific Societies, which linked together some

sixty local groups of naturalists and archaeologists of seven
counties. His predecessor in office was Sir Francis Darwin,

and he was succeeded by Sir Archibald Geikie, the ex-
President of the Royal Society. His presidential address

throws much light upon his manner of thought outside the
prescribed circle of his daily avocations and duties in the

field of science.  "   He took, as the foundation of his theme,
Pliny's dictum,       "Nt;heesauntEdonrgalslissuohprathpecrroevEpenirdgbal,mish"jupLdoeiect at'srtheetf,a"lclaowcbhiboicluehsr

has passed into

stick to his last

sentiment :

             " A little learning is a dangerous thing ;
               Drink deep, or taste not, the Pierian spring."

He ardently defended the amateur in an amusing
                                  ""thfreienadchSieuvpermacernetps idaorfiutsh,"e
imaginary conversation  with his
and produced evidence     from

supracrepidarians -- the cobblers who have become im

mortal by not sticking to their lasts : Herbert Spencer, who

left engineering to create a synthetic philosophy ; Keats,
who left surgery to write the ' imperishable odes ' ; the

curate of Selborne ; Thomas Hodgkin, the banker, one of

the greatest historians of his day." His particular interest

in the literary men who cultivated scientific studies led

him on to dilate upon the works of Tennyson and Goethe ;
but at the end he turned to another aspect of non-pro
        HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                                            301

fessional science : the zest it gives to life and particularly
to travel :

" There perhaps, nothing that contributes more to the
        is is,
                                                    is
enjoyment of travel at home or abroad than a little know

ledge of botany, geology, and entomology, particularly
botany. Abroad one watches with the keen delight of
novelty the unfamiliar plants and the strange and beauti
ful flowers. One's first sight of the fields of narcissi in the
pastures around Lausanne and Vevey -- familiar as the
Narcissus to us as a garden plant -- almost as exhilarating
as the first glimpse of the Soldandla rearing its tiny bells
through the melting snows of the higher alps. You know
the story of the great Linnaeus, how he fell on his knees in
ecstasy before the golden gorse-bushes on Wandsworth
Common. One begins to understand the feelings of Linnaeus
when, travelling in Norway, one first finds the exquisite

trails of the Linncea borealis peeping through the mosses
under the pine-trees. Travelling in Canada,
                                                        ;               a peculiar

                                                              it

                                                                    is
joy to discover for one's self that, in all the neglected corners
and roadsides where one would expect untidy clumps of
golden ragwort, their place                    taken by masses --no less
untidy in truth -- of Michaelmas daisies the purple AsterII
replacing the yellow Senecio. At home the memories of oldis
rambles revive in every nook one revisits. Crossing York

shire less than a week ago, found such recollections crowd
ing in upon me. There, as the train flew by, was the identical
                   schoolboy, used to find the rare Lastrcea
...bog where, asa     mile or two further on catch a glimpse
                                               I
thelypteris.      A                               II

of 'the sandy field beneath the fir-tree where for several       a
successive years found the almost extinct Veronica triphyllos.       a
        I

Back there comes the memory of a sunny Good Friday
afternoon when hunted that field and counted no fewer
                I

than eleven specimens and am filled with glow of
                      I;
                            I
conscious self-righteousness, of which am not ashamed,
when remember that took but three of these, hoping
I

the remaining eight would fructify and yield good crop
next year . . . and think of the field of marshy hillocks,
                   I

ten miles further north, where as a boy used to gather
Liliputian nosegays of Primula, farinosa, the fairy flower,
and where, later in the year, one could find orchises, epi-
pactis, yellow woad, and curling fronds of moonwort.
Alas, that fairyland
        it                          fairyland no longer. They have

                                is
turned  into golf-links --have smoothed out flat teeing
302 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

grounds, and disfigured it with silly bunkers. The fairies

dance there no more, the birdseye primrose has disappeared,
the orchises and epipactises have been exterminated, and
Ithe moonwort is as extinct as the dodo. Up the valley, a
few miles   to the   north-east,  It  see the line  of crags where the
holly-fern   used   to grow.          grows there   no longer, thanks

to the greed of the fern-hunters, and, across the valley,
almost in the shadow of Ingleborough, lie the spots --wild
horses would not                        Ithefousnedcretinofutnhqeuiersstiiotnuaabtiloyn
--where twelve       drag from      me
                    [?] years     ago
wild state the little Arenaria gothica ; the only specimen of
it from British soil ever before recorded having come from
the doubtful habitat of a railway-yard. . . . The happy
day spent in the field or the forest amongst the birds and

insects, or in the quarry with the hammer, writes its own
record on the tissue of the brain. And, as with the phono
graph, one may take out some cylinder long ago inscribed, and
place it on the instrument, and listen anew to the voices of
those who, it may be, have passed into the silence beyond,

so may we bring out the records of our happy field-days,
and live them anew, while the sunshine and the bird-songs,
and the hum of the bees and the sound of the wind in the

pines are ours once more, and the things of beauty have
become joys for ever."

   He made two practical suggestions to the Union, one

relating to the co-ordination of the local and partial surveys
of different regions, in which the amateur might happily
play his part, and the second --what the Selborne Society
(of which he was Vice-President) has done for the protection
of wild-birds might surely be repeated for our wild-flowers
before it is too late :

   " The bee-orchis is growing scarcer year by year on the

Surrey hills, though even on Box Hill it is still found. The
fritillary still rears its snaky head in the Thames Valley,

though every year the rapacity and thoughtlessness of
man is thinning it out. . . . We sorely need the public
to be indoctrinated with the wholesome view that a wild-

flower is the property of the community, to be enjoyed by
all, and therefore not to be selfishly grabbed or rooted
         . What  England owes to the voluntary workers       in
up. . .  no man                                              of
science          can declare or measure. . . . It is a work

national importance which [the societies] are carrying on in
      HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                          303

spreading the scientific culture and in fostering influences
which correct the bias of industrial and commercial careers,

and"  broaden out the narrownesses of our educational system.
      Yes, England has need of those whose scientific work
is done for love and not for money ; of those who recognise
that in the intellectual sphere also it is everlastingly true
that a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the

things he possesseth."

Thompson possessed many things, but he did not collect

any of the usual things pursued by the naturalist : books,

prints, and autographs descended to him from the older

generation, and he added much to these collections ; but
he began and gathered for himself a small and very lovely

little selection of uncommon precious stones, many of which

he valued for their optical properties, others for their sheer

beauty of colour and brilliance when properly cut.

himAnthinattim"aftoer  friend of Thompson  onco remarked about
                       him a holiday was   merely freedom from

routine work, and a change of scene to begin some long-
cherished project." No one was more industrious on

holidays than he, and during many summers he added

considerably to his collection of water-colour sketches of

Alpine scenery or of some favourite haunt nearer home.

As years passed on he became more and more devoted to

drawing and sketching among mountain scenery, either in

Scotland, Switzerland, or the Tyrol.

In 1883, after his visit to Germany to hunt up details for

his Life of Philip Reis, he and his wife went on into Switzer
land, and spent three delightful weeks in the Oberland,

where he made his first really successful sketches of glaciers

and snow-peaks, though in those days he did not attempt
to work on a large scale. For some time they stayed at a

small hotel on the pass from Meiringen to Grindelwald,

where were gathered together some six or eight artists of
considerable note, among them Sir Robert Collier (after
wards Lord Monkswell), Colin B. Philip, Walter Severn,

then President of the Dudley Gallery, and the President of

the Swiss Academy, who was a wonderful colourist.

Talking with these men and watching their way of work
  304 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

  ing, Thompson learned much, and some of his sketches of
  the Rosenlaui Glacier and the peaks of the Wetterhorn were
  exhibited in the Dudley Gallery in London in 1884.

     During the next nine years he had no opportunity of
  working at his favourite ice subjects, except when he
  sketched from the deck of an Atlantic Liner an iceberg which
  he saw in the Straits of Belle Isle. But during those years
  he did some very good work in Scotland at Glen Sannox,
  and on the Yorkshire coast.

    In 1 889, after the death of their mother in the spring, the

  Thompson brothers and sisters nearly all met together at
  Sandsend near Whitby, where Silvanus and his brother-in-
  law, Ellwood Brockbank, had taken houses for the summer
  months. That year he painted dozens of studies of sea

 and sky effects, and gained greatly increased facility. So
 much so that, when he went to Italy in 1892, although
 most of his time was taken up with sight-seeing on first visits
 to Florence, Rome and Venice, yet he was able to make
 some most effective sketches in odd moments. The holiday
 in Italy lasted six weeks. Thompson and his wife joined her
 father and mother and two younger sisters, who had made

 the tour before. In Pisa he made a sketch of the wonderful

 group of Campanile, Baptistery and Cathedral, which was

 exquisite in delicate drawing and colouring. In Rome he

 stole a few hours from visiting churches, and painted two
 sketches, one in the English cemetery, of the graves of
Keats, Severn and John Bell, and another just outside the

walls. In Southern Italy, where the party spent Easter at

Amalfi, he revelled in the glorious colouring, and loved to
get studies of olive-trees against the background of Mediter
ranean blue. He succeeded in making three vivid pictures.
Assisi also proved a happy sketching ground, for the sun
shone brilliantly, and several days were devoted to recording
in colour views in that historical city. One of the few days
devoted to Venice was spent in going by gondola to Torcello.
Thompson sketched the fairy-like sail-boats as they crossed
the Lagoon, and at Torcello made a study of the ivory-tinted
marbles of the courtyard and fountain with the Cathedral

in the background.
HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS  305

   Most of the Italian sketches had to be left unfinished. On

his revisiting the same scenes in the spring of 1 912 the weather

was cold and showery, and no sketching could be done.

  In 1894 began the first of a long series of holidays in the

Alps, in which his sister Rachel and the young daughters

began to share. At Riffel Alp that year he attempted work

on a much larger scale, and his pictures of the Matter horn
in storm or sunshine, and studies of the Findelen and
Gorner Glaciers, were some of the best work he ever did.

   He was now a member of the Royal Water Colour Society
Art Club, which included many professional artists, among
them David Murray, Colin B. Philip and Wilfrid Ball. The
club held an exhibition every autumn, to which Thompson
frequently contributed the results of his summer sketching
in the Black Forest, Evolena Valley, Arolla heights, and
Northern Tyrol.

   In later years some of his many friends, who were members

of the Alpine Club, and whom he used to meet in Switzerland,
invited him to exhibit at their winter show in the hall of

the Club, and there his work was seen at its best. In 1910

he did some very fine glacier painting at Saas Fee, and
Macugnaga, where he first began to go with a guide among
the crevasses and seracs, returning after a long day on the ice
with one or two rapid sketches of its wonders and glories.

   The summer of 1911 was very fine and hot, and he and

his wife and Helen went for a month to the Chamonix

Valley. Here he produced as much work as many a pro
fessional artist accomplishes in a whole season. While
staying for three weeks at Hotel Planet above Argentiere,
he made the acquaintance of an English artist, Mr. George
Flemwell, who was spending the season there, painting
flowers for a botanical book, which he was producing in con
junction with Mr. H. S. Thompson, a botanist, who was also
living at Le Planet.

    Thompson and Flemwell soon found that they had much
in common, and used to have long discussions over botany
and painting, and made excursions together. Afterwards
they kept up a correspondence, but never succeeded in

meeting again in the Alps. In the autumn of that year

         20
306 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Thompson had six large pictures in the Alpine club show,

two painted on the Glacier         des Bossona at Chamonix, three
on the Glacier d'Argentiere        and one of " Twilight on Mont

Blanc, from Le Planet."

In August 1912 Thompson wrote to Flemwell from

Strathyre, Perthshire.

" We shall not see Switzerland this year ; for my wife

claimed her privilege as a Scotswoman to have this year's

I I Ivac"atiolonvein
                 her native  country.      Switzerland  more,  and
                Scotland ;   but love

am"   wearying for a       sight of real peaks, and for ice.   well,
      The braes and        banks of Balquhidder are all very
and the heather is lovely --when the sun shines on it. But
that is precisely what the sun is not doing this year. Dull
days and everlasting drizzle is our fate so far : and when a
fitful episode of sunshine occurs, it is a miserable, washed-

Iout sun with no warmth and no persistency. Here's more

than a whole week of my short holiday gone : and have
no"t  put a paint-brush to paper.
      The Scotch hotel-keepers declare     that   Scotland     is almost
empty. They don't blame Switzerland : they say it is all
along of Mr. Lloyd George, and the strikes and the industrial

Iunr"est     !  across  a  lovely  patch,  in a garden  here,  of a most

          came

Ilovely white variety of Epilobium Angustifolium. Have
you ever seen it wild ?            bethought me of that pink patch

Iabove Les Tines. That reminds me that, just before leaving

home, got Mr. Stuart Thompson's book with your plates
Iof flowers. They are lovely, but are you right about St.

Bruno's Lily ? thought it was smaller.1 Is not the one
you have drawn the Paradise Lily ? Your white Alpenrose
(Rhododendron) is just exquisite. More power to your
elbow."

Next year, 1913, Thompson returned again to Argentiere,

after first spending a fortnight at Zinal, which was fruitful

in achievement.     Mr. Flemwell sent him a letter      iwcee-lfcaollms in! g"
                 Switzerland, her seracs and her
him back "to

but was not able to come himself into the High Alps that

summer. Dorothea, the third daughter, accompanied her

father and mother this time ; but she was not well, and

                 ' Mr. Flemwell was qujte right.
H
g

s

<J
'a

e H-

j0 ^'
      r/j

O 4-

5I

1K" ?iI-

 H

^

<!
                      HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                                                                                  307

severe attacks of asthma prevented her from venturing
on ice excursions, and caused them great anxiety. So the
holiday joy was somewhat clouded.

   Mr. Flemwell wrote in later years to Mrs. Thompson :

  I" As you know, Dr. Thompson was never happier than

when painting ice ; neither, as think, was his work ever
happier. Ice                     for painters, one of Nature's problems,
     I
                            is,
and have never met any one who, with his brush, went
more truthfully to the heart of ice than did Dr. Thompson.
His method was simplicity itself, his technique broad and
direct. By quick, simple washes, well calculated before
hand, he arrived at giving the substance, body and texture,

of  "icAe,ndbethteer   than any one         else of my                                               acquaintance.
                      revelled in it.         So much                                                 so, in fact,
                                                                                                                         that
                                                                                                                         :
remember being nervous for him planted for hours in the
                                                                                                                              I
midst of these treacherous seracs below the great ice-fall on

the Argentiere Glacier, and induced him to take a guide
with him --some one who could keep an eye on the move
O
me"ntBuotf  the ice.                 Alpine                                                 he  had  keen  interest       birds,
  I         in all things
butterflies, flowers --he could talk about them all, and with!
            I                    informing to tell one about them.
alw"ayOsnesodmaeythwineg             'left the Planet and scrambled up                                                   above
the railway, before crosses the river to call at Les Tines,
and there we lay in wait for the sunset glow upon Montis
Bla"nLcit--erlaalylyinwwe aditidtoslsalyay                                                  with our paints and brushes.
                           it                                                               too --for its gorgeous, fleeting

                            it, it I

                                                                                           !
colouring was more than a match for our powers --and we

had nothing to show to anybody when we returned to the

hot"elThe next day, however, up to Montanvert, Dr. Thomp
     did a really fine thing,
son  terrible austerity of the              catching                                                   to the life the    bleak
and                                         Aiguille                                                                       with
                                                                                                     du Dru --whilst
                                                                                                                   '
my"  back   to him painted           Les Charmoz.
     Well   do remember              that walk up                                                                       .I
                                                                                                     to  Montanvert,        and

the chat we had about Ruskin,                                                               aMnodnttheBlasncrca--ps  of Tennyson
which Dr. Thompson chanted to                                                                                        Come down,

    "maidr,emfoermLboevre       of the      valley,                                             come thou  down."           ..
                           pointing         out to                                              him that,  probably,
                                                                                                                             the

lady was safer where she was, and knew more about real
love, up there With Death and Morning on the Silver

hor"nAs,f'tewrwhiacrhdst,icwklheedn  him    immensely.                                               England,        he  copied
                                            returned to
                                      he
308 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

Iout the passage in full from Tennyson, and sent it to me.

  have it now."

During several summers when neither Switzerland nor

Scotland was visited he painted some successful colour
studies on the coast of Suffolk near Walberswick. One of

these, a golden sunset seen across the marshes, he gave

to his friend Sir William Crookes, on the occasion of the

celebration of his golden wedding. In later years he

exhibited in the Koyal Academy occasionally, but he did

not put prices on his pictures for many years, and only
parted with them as gifts to some of his friends.

   One little sketch which he made of the old town of Dinant

on the Meuse, with its quaint church spire, and picturesque

house roofs, has now, since the war, a melancholy and

tragic interest. It was made in 1897 when he and his

(artist) brother Tom went for a tour at Easter-time in the
Belgian Ardennes.

  In 1916 the following letter appeared in The Spectator

written by a man who had met Thompson at Dinant :

   " The late Silvanus Thompson was an expert in the

manufacture of French limericks. In the spring of 1897

he was staying at the Tete d'Or at Dinant (now, alas, a heap
of rubble and quickly made friends with all the party
there. Most of us went with him one afternoon to Givet,!),

and after tea at the hotel he started a French limerick com.
...petition. His was easily the best, but unfortunately
                         a

                                          A

                                                      I
remember only my own effort.                                  short time after

several of the party met with pro-arrangement at Laroche,
and here Thompson had reverse. Sitting down to make

a water-colour drawing of the steep little street which leads

up to the chapel, he was surrounded by children and some
grown-ups. To the uninstructed eye of the writer, the
drawing seemed to possess some charm, but a workman,
passing by, asked a bystander, Is any good
                              '                                                          Oh,

                                    it

                                                                               ?
                                                                           '
                                                                                  '

no,' was the answer, given with decision and a shrug of the

sho"uFldreorms.    ..                      as we drove          back                     in the

                 Houffalise the next day,
dark to Laroche, through the woods, the owls were very

noisy. Some one in the carriage started the fable
                                                              .
                         " Maitre hibou, BUT un arbre percb.6,
                           Tenait en son bee un fromage, .           ."

                                                                                      :
                   HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                         309

   " The driver at once leant back from his seat and supplied

the correction :

                   " Maitre corbeau. sur un arbre perchfi."

   " Thompson produced          another fable, then the      driver
his in turn, and it was        Thompson whose memory         lasted
the longer."

    From Laroche Thompson wrote to his wife :

it  " This is our last day in the Ardennes, and, unfortunately,
         a dull and showery
    "is  Yesterday was a fine  morning.     and  we went     an expedi
                               bright day,
tion to Houffalize. In the neighbourhood both of Laroche
and of Houffalize the country is fine, and the four miles
Idri"veSoalfoanrg  by the river Ourthe was splendid.
                   have got but two sketches -- one of Dinant,  the

Iother of the castle of Montaigles, and neither of them very
satisfactory.      hope the weather will let me get one here

before we go."

    Thompson used occasionally to have small reproductions

made of some of his sketches, generally by photogravure

processes. He used these as Christmas cards, and often

received appreciatory messages about them from his friends.

In 1897 he reproduced one of his sketches of the Glacier

above Lake Louise in the Canadian Rockies.

    During the week's excursion to the Rocky Mountains,

in company with his fellow members of the British Associa

tion, Thompson made about twenty sketches, all most

effective, though sometimes only taken from a railway plat

form or an observation car. When he reached Banff, near

Lake Louise, he spent a whole day sketching, while the rest

of the party made an excursion elsewhere.

    Of another Christmas card, a reproduction of a sketch of

"Ithe "Aiguille Verte," Mr. R. Catterson Smith, the head of
the Art Department at Birmingham, wrote :                    have just
received your extremely nice Xmas card. It is a fine

and romantic composition, full of the loneliness, mystery

and glisten of the Alps."

    From Mr. A. W. Rimjngton, an artist friend, Thompson
310 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

received great encouragement to hold a special exhibition

of his work. He wrote :

"     was much struck by your Alpine water colours.
      think some of them are quite exceptionally interesting
II"
and beautiful, and it seems to me a pity you should not
Iexh" iIbfit
            them as a   series.  use  to  you  in  arranging  for an
              could be   of any
Iexhibition of them --which do not think would be difficult,
please let me know."

Thompson talked sometimes of having a " one man "

show, but the leisure to arrange and prepare for it did not

come. During later years, however, when he began to take

a rather longer holiday, he used to finish up his sketches in

September after returning home, and then invited his

friends to come and see them on a Saturday afternoon

at "Morland." Some were sent also to the Annual

Exhibition of the Friends' Portfolio Society, held in a large

drawing room or studio.

After his death over a hundred of his pictures and sketches

were exhibited in the large hall of the Alpine Club, kindly

lent for the purpose by the committee of the club. They

were arranged and hung by a member of the committee,

Mr. J. Walter West, R.W.S., and the artist's daughter

Sylvia (Mrs. W. Hanbury Aggs). Some of the finest pictures
were lent by members of the family or friends to whom

they had been presented. The show included four un
finished sketches begun at Misurina in the Italian Alps in

July 1914, and interrupted by the tragedy of the European

War.

   During the exhibition, which lasted a fortnight, most of

the pictures were bought by Thompson's friends. A large

sketch of a natural ice arch on the Argentiere Glacier was

purchased by the Old Scholars' Association of Bootham
         thwehe"reGoitrgneowof
School,                         hangs, along with another of trees  and
rocks,                          the Giessbach, Axalp," presented     by

an old scholar.

Of the art of music, especially of orchestral music,

Thompson was an ardent devotee. From the time of his

student days in London, when he heard a number of
                   THE AIGUILLE VEIITE FROM "Ls PLANET."

                                            From a water-colour by S. P. Thompson.

310]
              HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                                 311

Wagner's orchestral works performed in the Albert Hall,

he had a great admiration for them. While living in Bristol

he used to be a frequenter of the weekly orchestral concerts

in the Colston Hall, conducted by Mr. George Riseley.
In 1880 he wrote to him :

" Will you allow me, as a humble supporter of your
Monday Concerts, to thank you personally for the excellent
performances you have been giving us of late, and in par
ticular for the Tannhaiiser Overture of last week ? You are

to be congratulated most heartily on the progress of your
I Iwork.
am desirous of doing what little can to help on
Ithe success of this movement, so hope you will pardon me
Ifor the suggestion now wish to make. Accompanying
this note is a copy of the score of Wagner's Ride of the
Valkyries, with which you are doubtless acquainted already.
Your success with the Tannhauser Overture is quite enough
to prove that this other morceau is quite within the capa

bilities of your excellent band."

   To this Mr. Riseley replied :

  I" You know am always glad to have a chat with you on
Imusic. Do you think the Bide will take ? am going
Ifto do the two introductions in Lohengrin at the next.

at any time you know of anything worth playing, do please
advise me."

  On several  occasions Thompson     sudgigdesgteenderpailelyces"  twakheich"
he had heard   elsewhere, and which

well in Bristol also.

When writing to Miss Henderson he mentioned meeting

Mr. Riseley, and said :

" We had a lot of talk about music, etc. He asked me to

write an account of Tannhauser for the next programme.
I wrote
I Ilibretto
off last night           to Alice,  begging her  to send   me the
that brought              north--   at Easter,   think it  was."

   Thompson did all he could to persuade his wife and her
sisters to play Wagner's music as arranged for the piano.
They did their best for him, as it gave him great pleasure,
recalling what he so much enjoyed on the orchestra ; but the

result was never very satisfactory from the musical point
of view.
312 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   When he came to live in London, he and his wife were

constant attenders of the orchestral concerts given in the

old St. James's Hall under the baton of Henschel or Richter ;
and later on, but not so frequently, at the Queen's Hall under
various conductors. He was always much interested in

the art of conducting, and delighted to sit sometimes behind

the orchestra and watch Richter or Sir Henry Wood.

   Fortunately, his own family were musical. His eldest

daughter Sylvia began to learn the violin when very young,

and studied afterwards at the Royal College of Music under

Sefior Arbos for five years. Thompson often went to the

College Concerts during the years when Sylvia was playing

in the orchestra, then conducted by Sir C. Villiers Stanford,

and greatly enjoyed them.

  A few years later Dorothea began to play the 'cello, and,

with either then1 mother or Helen at the piano, he was able

to enjoy home trios, without having the fatigue of going

to town and returning late at night. He always found
great rest and refreshment in listening to music. His

youngest daughter Irene had a good soprano voice, which

was well trained, and her singing gave him much pleasure.

  In September 1910 he wrote to his wife :

  I" Helen and went last evening to the Queen's Hall to

hear the Siegfried Idyll and other music. Every seat in
the"  hall was sold, when we got there,
      So we sat behind the violins, and  except orchestra seats.
                                         heard all from behind.
The horn player was magnificent, and the kettle-drum
                                     musician -- an artist to the
performer      a  perfectly amazing  good -- both Germans --but
finger-tips.      The singers were

      did not  hear them to advantage.
      To-day   has been a lovely day --with
Iwe"                                         an  Italian              sky  and

warm sunshine.    walked across the Heath this morning,

Iand returned from Finsbury at four p.m. to do a bit of painting
before daylight faded.   have been pulling together the
Macugnaga Glacier, and find it a tough job -- but it is like
ice. To-night we have had a lot of music ; Irene is in good
voice. Dorothea played
composer at Halesworth.  the   piece  given  her  by                  the  local
                              is not  bad."
                         It

"  In a lecture given    at the      "RTohyoaml pIsnosntitaupttiolyn      on the
                        of Music                                      expressed
   Physical Foundation
HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                              313

some of his thoughts and feelings about that art. After a
long experimental demonstration of the physical pheno
mena of music, he closed by saying :

   " Though a science, music is before all an art, and can
be interpreted only by the artist. . . . No analysis, however
searching, will explain away the thrill that runs through
us as we listen to some simple phrase or motif which recalls

the passionate andante, the gay barcarolle, the massive

triumphal march, or the wailing Miserere. . . . Art that is
true fears nothing from analysis ; it is beyond and above
its"rAeancdh.music, the most refined, the most subtle, the most
spiritual of the arts, defies analysis more effectually than
any. Our enquiry leaves its emotional and spiritual power

untouched, unchanged :

                   " For music, which ia as a voice,
                      A low voice calling fancy, as a friend,
                        To the green woods in th» gay summer- time,
                        Seeing we know emotions strange by it,
                        Not else to be revealed . . .
                        . . . is earnest of a Heaven."

   Thompson was well read in Browning, and had a profound
admiration for much of his work, though, unlike so many
others with whom he shared this sentiment, he also enjoyed
Tennyson's melodious verse with its rich illustration from
natural phenomena. These two poets, and Matthew
Arnold, inspired him in the production of verses which have

been much appreciated where they have come to be known.

In the first instance they were read at meetings of the

Westminster Portfolio Society, and afterwards in 1892
were, with one other poem by another writer, privately
printed for presentation to the members in the form of a
little booklet called Monodies. His feeling for poetry finds
its best expression in these verses, which are therefore quoted.

    AFTER READING " PARACELSUS "                  .-

"I shall arrive," he said, "in His good time.

 I see my way aa birds their trackless way.

  God guides me and the bird." O faith sublime

  Of him who dares aspire nor feel dismay
  To learn the workings of the Master Mind,
  To climb transcendent heights nor look behind,
314      LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

         To win the secret of the Universe.
         'Tis God who calls us to aspire --to KNOW ;

         For ignorance is the great human curse.

         IKnowledge is God-like : though the way go
         I know not. By what crooked paths or plain
         The circuit leads, the toil will not be vain

         That brings me onward to the unseen goal.

                    decays, but
                    is the call.
         Error                    "knogwoletdogeprosvheallmsyursvoivuel..

         IClear
         IIn some time --His good time -- shall arrive."

                           ALFRED TENNYSON

                                               1809-1892

                     I (FIRST OP THREE VEHSES)

         "Master of mystic music, thy great voice
           la heard no more. Across the moonlit space
           Whence thou art passed thy footfalls leave no trace
           Like the great King, the Arthur of thy choice,
           Blameless in deed and fearless in the fight.
           First in the quest and foremost in the field,
           Borne through the tingling darkness of the night
           After his last weird battle in the West
           Into the valley of Avilion
           Valley of silence and of endless rest--
           So thou into the Vale of Death art gone,
           By weeping shades into the darkness borne :
           Perchance, like Arthur, in the promised morn
           Of golden ages, when thy wound is healed,
           To come again to claim thy sword and crown,
           Thy plumed casque, thine own untarnished shield,
            O stainless singer of undimmed renown,
           Master of mystic music, whom we mourn."

    Of the value he placed upon good prose and proper

literary setting of all thought, he spoke in his Presidential

Address to the "Sette of Odd Volumes" (see p. 250), but apart

from the form which he chose as fitting for his own par

ticular literary matter, he was greatly interested in style

of speech and of versification. This was apparent in some

of  his   slighter  e"ssaaynsd  for the Portfolio  Society, such as those
on   "   Ballades                " Bouts-rimes,"   for illustrating which

he used his knowledge of Swinburne. He delighted in the

most difficult of all the poetical forms, the sestina, his

favourite example being one by Dora Sigerson Shorter. For

modern poetry, with the less rhythmical form he cared little.
            HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                                           315

but he often cut poems out of current papers and periodicals,

and kept them, though he enjoyed no leisure to make a

literary scrapbook.

  Thompson had an excellent memory, and up to his

fiftieth year never used his pocket diary, except to enter

occasional appointments, or to remind himself of the birth

days of his numerous relations.

   But  in 1900 he adopted   the habit   of   carrying about note
        after the manner    of Kelvin's    "   little green books,"
books,

his being blue, and stamped with the sign of Finsbury

Technical College.
  A friend
I"          once remarked to one of Thompson's daughters,
    always  imagine your father must have some extra coila

in his brain, which seems to master so many more branches

of knowledge and skill than an ordinary one." If it were

possible to reproduce the pages of his little blue note-books,

readers might find there some indication of the workings of

his mind. He used to fill the note-books from both ends,

beginning at the back with theology and philosophy,

frequently  reserving the first page  "orbotwokos  for  noting down
the names   of books to be read and                 to  be lookt at,"

and crossing them off when seen. One year the numbers

ran up to forty, another year to fifty-two. Then would

follow extracts and quotations, frequently in one of his five

foreign languages, Latin, Greek, French, German or Italian,

these last generally from Dante ; extracts ranging in date

from the writings of the early Fathers to the current

periodicals, mostly prose, some poetry. The other end was

mainly   devoted   to scientific  work, again lists of books,
perhaps  headed                   at in the B.M.," followed by
                  " To be lookt

notes on visits to works, notes of and for important lectures,

diagrams of all kinds of apparatus, calculations of dynamos,

graphs, or harmonic curves (the paper was finely ruled
in squares on purpose for such work), hints of speeches at the

University or some technical school, caricatures of people

present at the meeting ; the latest Marconi development,

some new device for   producing   a  annoteeffehcetadofedpo"laOrispetidcs  light
like the atmospheric   effects ;                                            and

Artists, ' Beata Beatrix ' of Rossetti, see the shadows on
316 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

the dial ; evidently it was about 1               a.m.  in the Arctic Circle
                                                  the                                "
with   the sun at least    "30In° fluabenovcee          northern           horizon
       pages further on :                                                           !
A few
                                                  of Accuracy of Language

on Accuracy of Thought, incorrect use of terms, Ambiguity,

Neglect of study of Greek, Shunt Dynamo, Polarity,

Entropy." Then a page of queries, some of a mathe
matical nature : "Is there a
                                              9?th-"peoiswnatimthesphpaeargLeea, t: itnh"eWqahunaoattlaoitgsiuoeint
in solid of the 9-point circle
about it ; following closely on

that remains permanent in permanent magnets ? Magneto

motive force        ?  ?"  Flux ? Energy      ?   How does interior         reluct
ance change                 A little further      is a page headed "       Science
                                              on

and Temperament," with a dozen sub-headings, references

"toGeNrmewatnoyn,:     Huxley, Faraday, Poincare, and the note,
                       No scientific amateurs ; No society enter
tainers." In the next year's volume the same theme

appeared again, with considerable additions and many new

sub-headings. The writing is occasionally hardly legible,

indicative of crowded underground carriages and omnibuses,

for he often made use of these opportunities for consulting

his little blue book and adding to its contents. Between

the leaves are some small botanical specimens, brought

from a holiday walk for identification ; on another page is

a note of the names of some plants, Pyrvs eleagneaifolia

(wild oh' ve- leaved pear), etc. There is half a page devoted
to quotations from St. L. Strachey and Rudyard Kipling,

followed by a cramped compilation headed, "A Scientific

Man's Views on Politics," facing a page of short quotations

from Virgil, Diderot, Carlyle, Nietzsche, Huxley, Ruskin, etc.,

on the Philosophy of Life. A few pages further on is a four-

line extract from Barry Cornwall.

       " A picture varying with the varying years ;
         A long Love-dream, some hopes and many fears ;

       "AIs  battle         (lost or won) blood-red  with  lsifterife! ,"
             that          dim human Kiddle called
                                                     --A

   One of the books noted hi the same volume is Warren's
Death of Virgil, and on another page an extract from it,
repeated in the next volume, and sent to a friend, an Oxford
            HOBBIES AND HOLIDAYS                      317

man, with the reproach, " What ! you don't know the finest

bit of English poetry that Oxford has produced since

Matthew Arnold's time ? Fie upon you ! You are just

Iabsorbed into the sixteenth century think." The quota

tion was :

" To know, to do, and on the tide of time
  Not to drift idly like the cockle-Bailor

   Whose pearly shallop dances on the blue,
  Fanned by soft airs and basking in brief sun,
  Then at a cloudlet sinks, with scarce a ripple ;
  But to steer onward to some purposed haven

  And make new waves with motion of our own, --
  That is to live."

With these lines Thompson closed his Life of Kelvin.
                      CHAPTER XV

RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS

" Truth IB not to be found by refusing to seek it ; nor in the quest must

we count the cost. There are many ways of arriving at truth ; many

views of truth. There are other windows opening on to heaven than

those of the nursery  in which we  --weFrreombrothuegh" tQuuepst;  and some are  wider,
and some face toward   the dawn."                                  for Truth."

 THOMPSON was born a member of the Society of Friends,
 according to the regulations of that body which registers,
 as members, those children whose parents are both in
 membership, and he remained a Friend to the end of his life.

   At the time of his birth the Society had, with nearly

 all other English religious bodies, shared in the great wave
 of Evangelical thought which swept through the country

in the early part of the nineteenth century. A good many

 members of the Society had adopted these beliefs and
opinions with so much fervour and so little reserve as to
become, as Thompson in later years phrased it, not merely
evangelical, but ultra-evangelical in their attitude of mind.

   In the home life of the Thompson family the religious

atmosphere was a very quiet one, and the parents were
more concerned to live the Quaker life than to talk about
it. But in those middle years of last century there was a

great deal of preaching to the boys and girls of the schools,
and visiting ministers were constantly putting before them

the evangelical point of view. To its appeal a considerable
proportion of young Friends responded with great enthu

siasm and whole-hearted devotion. Thompson especially

came very much under its influence, owing to his association
with his mother's younger brothers, Richard and Joseph
Tatham of Settle, both deeply religious young men of fervid
and saintly character. John Ford, the first Head Master

                                                                     318
       RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 319

  of Bootham, was also a man of the quiet and gentle evan

  gelical school.
     While still a junior master at Bootham the study of

  science led Thompson to question some of the articles of
  faith laid down by those who belonged to the extreme

 evangelical school of thought. In religion he was always

  deeply interested, but he felt a repulsion from some of the

 forms in which it was presented. At the age of twenty he

  was already seeking to reconcile the teachings of science and

 religion. In an article published in the Bachelor's Papers in

  1871 he wrote :

     " The notion of irreconcilability probably arises from a
 double misunderstanding : first of the theologians, who are
 vexed that science should take upon herself to explain the
 manner of those vital causes of which they imagined them

 selves to possess the key ; and, secondly, of the physicists
 who, by the rigorous logic of their intellectual training, are
 unable to understand that in other departments truth may
 be attained by other methods than those of the five senses."

    He then went on to discuss religious beliefs in the earlier
 ages of history, showing how religion was gradually evolved
 until the time of the Christian era, and how in the Middle
 Ages Christianity was in the trammels of priestcraft, and
 even after the Reformation permitted small range to the
 scientific enquirer. He then touched on the theory of
 scientific evolution, and ended with the following conclusion :

    " Sincere scientific study, conducted even to the furthest
limits of research, revealing everywhere the evidence of a
grand purpose running throughout all the realms of material
nature, cannot fail to exalt the glory of Him of whom, and
through whom, and to whom are all things."

    Thus, even before he began his studies under Huxley,
Frankland and Tyndall, Thompson had arrived at being
in the position of a seeker, and in the meetings he attended
was not afraid to speak of the faith which was his. But
he began to question the popular terms of expression of
religious ideas more and more, and at length, for some

years, he felt it best to wait and be sileat. In 1880, when
320 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

If"irstatmalknionwg  of these questions with his future wife, he said,
                     considered a bit of a heretic." His heresy con

sisted chiefly in his not being able to repeat the shibboleths
of the current expressions of religious truth. These were
seldom used in the more reserved atmosphere of the Scottish

Quaker home of the Hendersons, who followed the old

Quaker way of life in simple fashion, but with wider sym
pathy for art and literature than Thompson had known at

home.

When living in Bristol, Thompson was a constant attender

of the Friends' Meetings, and occasionally spoke in them.
Later, on his removal to London, he attended Westminster

MeHeteinggrainduSatl.lyMcaarmtine'stoLfaeneel--. and his opinions were shared
by others --that the Society of Friends during the seventies

and eighties was drifting more and more into Methodism
and approaching nearer to other Nonconformist bodies,
while forgetting its ancient call to a mystical and inner

religion.

   Still he remained loyally devoted to the Society, and,

although his life was a very busy one, he did not shirk
what he felt to be hiB duty in taking a share of the work

for it.

   Having no paid ministers, the Society depends on the
voluntary services of its members. Each congregation has

its appointed secretary, called the Preparative Meeting
Clerk. For three years Thompson acted in that capacity,

which, in a large meeting of over 300 members, entailed a

considerable amount of work.
   About 1889 he began to take more part in preaching in

the meeting. One of his fellow members of the congrega

tion described his ministry thus :

   " He spoke with deliberation and great reserve. There
was a fine wideness of vision, studied emphasis, courage and
fervour, but also balance, detachment, and wisdom. There
was no declamation, no gesture, and very little direct appeal.
But the effect was wonderful, and the hearers very willing,
reverent, and responsive. He would choose as his text
a line from Browning, Tennyson, George Meredith, or the
    RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 321

Book of Wisdom ; or he would dig up from a long dead,
hidden treasure-house some brilliant and glistening gem of
thought and polish it before our eyes. He would draw his

similes from the ends of the earth, from history, science,
literature, art or music, and he would unfold, reveal, pro

phesy. He was a seer, and he came to tell us what he had
I Iseen -- and so, all unconsciously, and as if by accident, he
became a prophet.         well remember how discovered he

was a prophet. One Sunday morning in 1892, he rose from
his seat on the side gangway at Westminster, and lifted
Iour hearts and minds into the vast spiritual world in which
he  "dHweelts. pokehoafd   never heard  a Quaker     sermon like it.
                          what he had   seen, and    what he knew.
                                                                      He

spo"kAe t  with courage,  fervour,      vision.      and always,      as it
            that time he    spoke       but rarely,

seemed, with a definite message, a live coal from the altar
had touched his lips." '

It was soon after this occasion that Silvanus Thompson

was appointed to the office of elder, and frequently it was

his duty to sit in the gallery facing the congregation. Seeing

assembled before him the members with all their varied

spiritual needs, messages began to come to him more often,

messages which brought comfort, hope, and strengthening

of faith to many present.

  In the year 1895, at the request of some of the Friends

who were concerned for the state of the Society at that

time, a Conference was appointed to be held in the autumn

at Manchester. This Conference was epoch-making in the

history of the Society. Papers were read by many of the

most advanced thinkers among its members. Professor

Rendel Harris of Cambridge, the profound Oriental scholar,

Principal Graham of Owens College, Manchester, Dr. Robert

Spence Watson of Newcastle, were among those who took

part. Miss Frances Phillips Thompson of Birkenhead,

Thompson's cousin,        r"eaCdana   paper, and      he himself  contri
buted one entitled,                  a Scientific    Man be a     Sincere
Friend ? " From Manchester he wrote to his wife :
    I" snatch a few minutes before Conference resumes.
This morning's discussion of social questions was very good.
Dr. Spence Watson opened well. Cousin Fanny Thompson

    1 Written by Sir George Newman in Friends' Quarterly Examiner.

    21
322 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

followed       with an   admirable modern-view                 phaigpherl.eveEl --xcaenpdt
for a few      croakers  the speakers kept a very

I Ithe tone was to be admired throughout. This afternoon

EladrgwearadudGiernucbeb--letahdesreofwf,etrheenoverfoallowth.ousansdhaltlhhisavme oarnvinergy,
      there will be
and"  We went with       more.    and William                  Brockbank,  a party
                         Ellwood

of twenty of us, including Cousin Charles Thompson of
Morland, Luke Woodard of Carolina, Joshua Rowntree,

etc., to lunch at the Reform Club."

Thompson began his paper by saying :

" Please to note that the question on which 1 have been
asked to write a short paper is not whether a Friend can
be a scientific man, but whether a scientific man can be a

sincere Friend. The former query is sufficiently answered
                                   names : John Dalton, Luke
by the mere mention      of three  all Friends, all indisputably
Howard, Daniel Hack
                          Tuke --

men of science. The other question before us can only be
answered by inverting for the time our point of view, and,
starting from the position of the man of science, enquire
whether that position is compatible with the acceptance of
the particular views of Christianity which distinguish the

IFri"enYdosu
it not    from other bodies        of Christians.              will  be.   Were
day ! .    know beforehand        what my answer

         an    aWffihrmata,tivtheena, nisswSecr,iencesh?ou"ld  not stand  here to

           ..

This question he proceeded to answer, then went on to

say that  he did not admit that    th"erTehacot uldwhbicehanyis            conflict
between   science and religion.                                             divine

truth, modern thought will leave wholly untouched, or will

touch but to confirm."

He closed with the words :

" Being Friends, we are, to the unspeakable gain of our
souls, preserved alike from those diseased word-battlings
that afflict so many honest and sincere, but less enlightened
Christians, and from the torturing fear that science may
one day undermine our faith. We have a stronger, because
a purer faith. We have learned that sin, being a spiritual
disease, requires a spiritual remedy. We have advanced
beyond the materialistic notion that sacrifice is better than
obedience. We have learned that there is no infallible
RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 323

Pope, no infallible church, no infallible book. We have
learned that creed is not separable from conduct ; that a
man's religion is not what he professes, but that which he
lives. . . . All that is true, all that is real, all that is vital
will remain, will prosper, will grow. . . .

                       " ' Thanks to Him,
         Who never is dishonoured in the spark
             He gave us from His fire of fires, and bade
                Remember whence it sprang,    nor   be afraid
         While that burns on, though all the  rest  grow dark  T  '  "

The papers read at the Manchester Conference were after

wards bound together and published as a volume. Thomp

son's paper  was also  printed in pamphlet form.    it,H"isAflmrieonsdt
Sir William  Ramsay    said to him, after reading

thou persuadest me to be a Friend," and went on to express

his agreement with much of its reasoning.
   From Baltimore, U.S.A., he received a letter from a

revered Friend, Joseph J. Cornell, whom he had met at

Chicago  in 1893,  tohfan"ktihneg  him for his testimony to the old
Quaker   doctrine                  Indwelling of the Divine Spirit

in the soul of man." He concluded by writing :

  II" But need not weary thee with many words. remember

with feelings of deep satisfaction our short meeting and
mingling in Chicago, and the savor of thy testimony to the

Isufficiency of the Inner Light, in our Meeting, is vividly

fresh in my memory, and so felt impelled to, in this form,
send thee a loving greeting of sympathy and encouragement
for thy strong words in that Conference."

  In 1903 Thompson's gift as a preacher was recognised by

the Westminster Monthly Meeting, and he was recorded as
a Minister of the Society of Friends.

   In a memorial drawn up by direction of this Monthly

Meeting, soon after his death, the following words occur :

   " A feature we would notice in our friend's character

may be spoken of as his sense of worship. The man of
science resisted the temptation to arrogance, which know
ledge sometimes brings, . . . that he might humble him

self before God. In the ' real presence ' he found that the

link between man and his Maker needed no outward symbol.
His influence as a worshipper in his own Meeting at West
324 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

minster was felt to be precious. It was not alone his own
approach to God, expressed oftentimes in prayer, in which
he would lead the thought of the Meeting with very simple
and sincere words ; but also his sense of the worship of
others, so that the Meeting became a true fellowship in
which his own or other's service, silent or vocal, might
find"  its fitting
       The gifts    and harmonious   place.    of  a              brother  or
                    of one did not  mar those
sister. A preacher of power himself, he would hold back,
and often sit silent when he felt that the word was given to

another ; and when something seemed to hinder the course

of true worship he was often able to bring it back into its

true direction."

There exist several printed addresses which Thompson

gave on special occasions, though many, including some of

the best, were never written or printed. In 1905 the Friends

decided to give special public addresses in the chief cities of

northern England at the time of holding their Yearly Meeting

at Leeds for  the first  time  f"orChtwriostceinntuMrieosdeorunt  of London.
The subject    chosen    was                                      Life," and

Silvanus Thompson was asked to deliver the address at

Liverpool. Each speaker was free to interpret the subject

as he pleased. On May 29th, 1905, he wrote to his wife :
" The evening meeting in the old meeting house at Liver
pool was very large ; it was quite full, some 650 people being
present, of whom nine-tenths were certainly not Friends.
                    good President. The people listened most
IDr. Thorp made a    upon my words, and seemed to realise

attentively --hung
that really had a message for them. A number of folk
came to me afterwards, amongst them Roy Coventry, J.C.,
my old Flounder's tutor, a former Bristol student, and one
of Professor Marchant's demonstrators. They all asked for

copies of my address."

  In the following year Thompson spoke very strongly in

the Yearly Meeting on the drift of the Society of Friends
away from its first principles, and the consequent loss of

members by their joining other religious bodies. In plead

ing that Friends should return to the principle for which

they had stood from the beginning he said :
   " But what do we as Friends stand for ? Not for a bundle
RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 325

of negations, not for a partitioning of the country into dis
tricts called Quarterly Meetings, nor for an organisation of

a hierachy of elders, overseers, and ministers. These are
all the veriest details, which might be abundantly varied
without departing from the truth. What was it that George
Fox and his fellow workers went out to preach ? What was
the revelation committed to them ? What was it but the
fundamental principle of the Inner Light of Christ shining
into the heart and vitalising the man from within ? What
was it but the Divine Immanence in the soul, making dis-

cipleship     the  ?   conscious  obedience to the inwardly   revealed
            God                   an evangel of Inspiration,  a Gospel
Will of                  It was
of Divine Illumination which had entered into their lives. . . .
All the rest followed from
                                  this principle ;  the non-necessity
of the purely institutional       and traditional   things -- no priest,

no ritual, no liturgy, no ordinances. Men were to be saved,
not by machinery, not by articles, nor ordinances, nor
liturgies, nor by priestcraft, but by listening to the Voice
of God and by doing His Will."

He went on to show how degeneration from these

ideals had crept, and was creeping, into the Society :

   " The    Society must awake," he     cried, " must renounce.
            be willing to lose itself,  to save itself. . . . We
It must
must neither include nor exclude too widely. . . . We
know of no Inner Light but that of the Lord Jesus Christ
in the soul. Let us not be slaves of words. We recognise
no Inner Light that is not the emanation of God Himself.
By whatever name we call it--          whether Inner Light,   or Holy
            or Christ  within --it is  the same thing.
Sp"iriSt,o  far from   our mission     being ended, it has    scarcely

begun. More than ever does the world need the message
the proclamation of which was laid upon our forefathers
...in this body, and which, after two centuries and a half, it is
still called to uphold            to forsake the ' Lo ! here ' and
' Lo !             '   osftiltlhteheponpeeudlarofcthou-rdcahye--s, thaendChtorisltoowkithtoin.t"he
Christ,     there
            who    is

   In the same year 1906 Thompson was invited to give an
address at York Meeting House during the time of the

holding of the British Association Meeting in that city.

It was given on the Sunday evening, and was very largely

attended by members of the Association, as well as by the

Friends who usually formed the congregation there.
326 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

He chose as his subject a discussion of that aspect of

religion known as Mysticism ; the address was afterwards

incorporated in an  tahretictlietlepuobflis"heIdntuinititohnealFriRenedligs'ioQnu."arteHrlye
Examiner, under

took as his text the motto which the ancient University of

Oxford has used for centuries, Dominus Illuminatio Mea,

and showed forth the growth of the ideas of Divine Illumina

tion, of the Light of Conscience, the Inward Light, warning

his hearers lest they should be misled by analogies and

metaphors drawn from a study of light in its physical sense.
From the mystic writers, William Law, Erskine of Linlathen,

Henry More, etc., he gave many quotations. He classified

Mysticism under the heads of poetical, apocalyptic, ethical

and quietist, illustrating his classification by examples.

   The address lasted about an hour. Sir William White,
a member of the Association, described it to another scientific

man as the best lay sermon to which he had ever listened.

   When the Yearly   Meeting   met   taimt eBiormn i"ngAhganmostinicis1m908anhde
again gave a public  address,  this

Christianity."

Many requests for Sunday evening addresses from Meet

ings up and down the country now began to reach him.
But he was too busy to devote much time to going about.

One of the last of these public addresses was given in 1913,

ienntaitleladrge"  public hall to an appreciative  audience ; it was
                   The Sacrament of Life," and     with another on
" Materialism," of about the same date, appeared as chapters

of the book A Not Impossible Religion. His Sunday

evenings were largely devoted to their preparation.

During the years which followed the first holding of

Yearly Meeting out of London in 1905, and partly as a

result of fresh enthusiasm awakened then, there arose among
the younger Quaker members a great revival of interest
in the meetings for worship. Groups of young Friends
were formed to visit the meetings throughout the country,

and to try to bring into them a renewal of the spirit of the

gatherings of the early Friends, in which there was more
willingness to wait in silence for a spiritual message to be

given.
RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 327

Numbers of the students at Oxford, Cambridge, Birming

ham and elsewhere were interested in this movement, and

Thompson was asked on several occasions to come to their

meetings and speak to them. Twice he went to the Wood-

brooke Settlement, near Birmingham, to address the students

there, and he paid two or three visits to Cambridge for the

same purpose.

When visiting the latter town he several times stayed

with the venerable Canon Bonney, the geologist, with

whom he enjoyed many talks on scientific and religious

topics.

   This  revival   among  the younger Quakers came to be
known    as the "  Young
                          Friends' Movement," and it rapidly

extended over the country. Thompson's third daughter

Dorothea, a London college graduate, took an active part in
it, and was a member of the central Committee.

   In 1912 she went, with other members of the Committee,

to visit some of the large bodies of Friends in the United
States, where there was a similar revival of interest among

the young. Thompson was deeply interested in the form

of this revival. Some of its permanent effects were soon

after tested by the outbreak of the war, when most of its

young men members took up the strongest position, main

taining the Society's testimony to the unchristian character

of all war, and many suffered imprisonment as conscientious

"objectors to military service.

theIn"  the summer  of 1914 Thompson was invited to deliver
        Swarthmore   Lecture " at the next Yearly Meeting of

the Society. This Lecture is an endowed one, founded

by Friends about 1907, and is given annually.

The Lectureship has a twofold purpose-- first, to interpret

further to the Society of Friends their message and mission ;

and, secondly, to bring before the public the spirit, the aims,

the fundamental principles of the Friends. The Lecture
is always published in book form on the day that it is

delivered.

   Thompson chose as his title The Quest for Truth, and began
at once, during the summer vacation, to prepare the material

for it. Fortunately much was done before the outbreak
328 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

of the European War had begun to throw extra work and

strain upon him.

  It was during his Easter vacation in 1915, spent with his

daughter Dorothea at Falmouth, that he finally prepared

the volume for publication, she assisting him with helpful

criticism and correction of proofs.

  As the Lecture is always publicly advertised, it was known
that the audience would be a large one, so it was arranged
that it should be delivered in the Central Hall, Westminster,

which is much larger than the large Friends' Meeting House

at Bishopsgate. It is, however, not so well adapted for

speaking in. About 1 ,600 people were present. The Lecture

was only briefly reported in the daily papers, but the

printed volume, which contained a great amount of matter

not read by the author, in addition to the numerous and

lengthy footnotes, was reviewed in many of the publications

of the religious press.
   A good review appeared in One and All, from the pen of

Dr. Currie Martin, M. A. The following quotations give some

idea of the scope of the Lecture.

" The Professor sets out by giving a fresh and interesting
account of the differences between truth, error, and false

hood, and of the vital distinction between truth and veracity.

This treatment of words is not only useful in itself, but is a
       object-lesson in
fine"  The importance    the importance of  accurate language.
                           of maintaining   intellectual integrity
is next dealt with, and the great danger that besets us all in

becoming the victims of prejudice. In a couple of pages
the writer sets clearly before us the most common forms of
hindrances to the Quest for Truth ; these consist in over-
respect for authority, fake humility, the aversion from

doubt, the tendency to temporise, the craving for originality,
       want of precision in
and"   We come next upon     language and clarity of  thought.
                             the passage containing   the treat
ment of the Quest for Truth in various departments of

kno"wTlehdegeP.rofessor gives a striking instance of how mere

accuracy may be misleading, and thus we see that a proper
use of imagination is an essential element in the true Quest
for"   Truth.
       Of special  interest  to  us ia the section  dealing  with
      RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 329

religion and morals. This is illustrated by a somewhat
lengthy treatment of pious frauds, legends and folklore, full
                                illumination.
of "suCgagreesftuiol nstaunddy  of this book   can    have   only one result  --
                                and uplift of  soul.        will be found to
clearness of vision                                     It                    be

of far higher practical value and of more permanent effect
than many volumes which at the first glance seem to give
richer promise of such results."

   Another criticism in the Bristol paper, The Western Press,

said :

   " The book is marked by the same lucidity of statement
and force of argument as characterised Dr. Silvanus Thomp

son's public speeches in this city in bygone years. In addi

tion the book is remarkable for the wide range covered by
its author in his search for the opinions of others on the
points under discussion. These very numerous quotations
in letterpress and footnotes are extremely apt, and add
considerably to the value of the volume."

  A reference in the Lecture to the strange use of words
employed by Mrs. Eddy in her writings on Christian Science,

brought upon its author several letters in defence of her

language. He also had a lengthy correspondence with

some members of the Society of Friends who had not fully

understood some of the points of his arguments.

Thompson did not by any means confine his attention

to the Quaker aspect of religious truth. He was a wide
reader of theological works, both ancient and modern. His

friend Sir Oliver Lodge published several works on religion

and philosophy which interested him greatly.

  In 1904 he wrote to

" Many thanks for your address on ' Mind and Matter,'
                    me food for many days.
Iwh"icIhnwillgive      agree with the line you              take.  There must
      the   main

be "aWmhoantisma ,   ultimately ; but no, not         Haeckel's.   be         so
                    pity that any scientific           man should

blatant ! He is doing little better than set up a new dog
matism, which can at best be little better than the old, and

ma"y    be  far worse.          mean by        the sentence,       ' Direction is
             what do you
      But
not a function of energy ' ?
330 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

" Surely it is, just as much so as matter ? Are there not
energy-paths, for the existence of which Poynting, and you
yourself, are responsible as sponsors ? Are not these the
trajectories of energy, just as truly as the parabola of the
pro"jeEcntielergyor isthaen sturnedaimre-clitneed  of the fluid ?
                                                   quantity in one   sense,     just as
truly as mass is an undirected quantity. Is that all that

mean
Have
Ityou"?
           yet  read  the                          Life  of  Bishop  Creighton  ?  is
      you
Imost deeply interesting.                          came across the following,

written in 1887, when he was Professor at Cambridge [after
noticing the number of Universities in foreign countries in

comparison with ' only two in England '] : ' The English
character loathes a multiplicity of ideas-- so bewildering ' !
Only two \ \ He totally ignores Durham, London and

Victoria : to say nothing of the Scottish four. With all his
breadth, he is occasionally curiously narrow."

About 1907 Thompson joined a small number of men of

vwahriaotusthedyencoamlliendati"onTsh, e  who had formed              themselves into
                                          London Society             for the Study of

Religion." He and T. Edmund Harvey, Warden of Toynbee

Hall (afterwards to become his son-in-law), were the only
Quaker members. He describes the Society to Sir 0.

Lodge in a letter to him in 1912.

   " You may Have heard of our London Society for the
Study of Religion, founded about seven years ago, in which

members of a number of different beliefs, Jews, Romans,

Anglicans, Baptists, Unitarians and Agnostics, etc., take
part. We are but forty members or so, and have got to
know and esteem one another very thoroughly. Baron von
Hiigel, Joseph Wicksteed, Rev. A. S. Lilly, Claude Monte-
fiore, Professor Israel Abrahams, Rev. P. T. Forsyth, Mr.
C. S. Mead and various other men, whose names you will

kno"wW, earseeladcotmivemmeeetmlebsesrst.han twenty-five in number once »

month, to read and discuss papers. We have had, as
visitors, Sabatier, Father Semaria, Dr. Thomas Hodgkin,

etc. At the end of each session we conclude with a dinner,
when we try to have some visitor with us to discourse to us

informally, and at short length after dinner. I am asked by

the Council to write to you to ask you whether you would
honour the Society by being its guest at our next dinner.
       RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 331

  I" hope you will be able to come ; and, if so, that you will

consider this house your home for the night."

Sir Oliver was, unfortunately, too much occupied to be

able to come to the dinner.

Thompson, at intervals, read papers to the London Society,

and was a member of its committee, and also served as

President for one session. Their meetings were held at a

small hall in Westminster. In October 1912 Thompson

again wrote to Sir O. Lodge :
I" have been looking into your Modern Problems, which,
if you will pardon me for saying so,
your lay (i.e. non-scientific) books.       seems            to me   the  best of
                                                             go on   the  shelves
                                            It will
                                            Lay Sermons.
bes"idSeincseuchHuwxolerkys's  as Huxley's                    man who has
                                days there  is no scientific

got the ear of the public as you have, except the late Grant
Allen, whose biology appealed, perhaps, more to people
interested in living things than physics does. And he had a
    philosophy behind him.
    don't pretend to have read all the essays
I Ipoo" r
Icome some old friends as well as new ones.                       ;  but    wel

                                                                     like your
chapter on Arbitration as far as it goes ; but it seems to me
that it scarcely sufficiently emphasises the point that when
mankind has really got into the scientific frame of mind in
which the instinct will be to resolve problems by applying
principles, and abhorring prejudice, there will be no chance of
squabbles being settled in any other way than by law and
arb"itYraotuiohna, vneatthioeneaal raonfd
                                            international.   you  realised  that
                                           the public. Have
the public needs to be told, not once, nor twice, that our
rulers, politicians, administrators, legislators, are-- (that is
95 per cent, of them) trained up in a non-scientific school-
of  ttthrruuottuhhghitsth--aotrevhneaons-twhneohveuengrhttbhe;eeynanatdreestthheoadntebtsyht e--fiirrosfctutrprrureitnnhct ipumlneessiafts?eud"re,
of
of

   Three of Thompson's oldest friends, Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir
William Barrett, and Sir William Crookes, as well as some

of his Thompson cousins, were deeply interested in Psychical
Research, and in investigation of supposed spiritual mani
festations. For a time he studied the publications of the

Society, but he could never accept as proven the supposed

messages from the spirits of departed friends. He could
332 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

never believe in the absolute honesty of the medium, and

considered that there was nothing manifest which could

not be explained by telepathy or thought transference,

conscious or unconscious", on the part of the living.

Occasional references to the subject occur in his letters

to Sir Oliver Lodge ; in his intercourse with Sir William

Crookes it was carefully avoided.

The following two letters to Mr. T. Bailey Saunders are

further evidence of his devotion to modern studies in religion.

The first was written during the winter vacation of 1907 :

I" Many thanks to you for your kind gift of your Quest
of Faith.        shall have a first reading of it to-morrow after

      in a    snug arm-chair, and promise myself a treat.
              that your earlier chapters deal with Huxley.
I Inoo"nsee
Isat at his feet for a time -- literally, as a student --and had a

tremendous admiration for him as a man, though always
Ithought him too much inclined to a dogmatism of his own.
A few months      ago     --toaokS, unindacyomafptearnnyoonwiwthalka               friend    --a
                                                                                  across
biologist and a  thinker                                                                     the

fields to Finchley to the Cemetery to revisit Huxley's grave.
Already the tombstone is growing green. On the stone are

these words :

           "  '  Be not afraid, ye waiting   hearts that weep,
                                             bweillolsv--edsosbleeestp.'";
                 For still "He giveth His

                 And if an endless sleep He

I" know not whence these lines come, and it is not
perhaps without significance that, whoever caused them to
be inscribed there, thought it needful to put the text from
      Psalms into quotation marks.
the"  But to find them there at all is of much     more                           significance,

i"tIif
      be that their inscription  was by      any   direction                       of his.       ;
      Entbehren sollst du ? Of   course      was   familiar                       with this
      it was
              not this mocking phrase that was in my thoughts.
      some    other passage that have read elsewhere, possibly
and

IIt is
Iin the Eckermann volume, but which cannnot now find,

where the        ethIifcayl osuignfiinfidcanitc,espleoafseentrbeemhreemn baenr d   entsagen  are
contrasted.                                                                       me."

The next letter is written in June of 1907.

" You were so good as to lend me two books : As Others
ISa"wTHheimse
              and The Great   Enigma.        with  apologies                      for  having
                  now return  to you
RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 333

Ikept them so

the former.
            loIntg.is  But only to-day have managed          to finish
                       distinctly good and interesting.         As to
ILilly's book, while there are plenty of interesting things,
cannot read it without continually finding myself pulled up

by some implication or some ignoratio elenchi most subtly

interwoven in the argument. It may not be consciously
dishonest, but it is certainly disingenuous. There is always

Ian arriere pensee somewhere lurking round the corner.
Imust re-read your Quest of Faith now that have read the

Enigma. The chapter on Spencer wearied me. 1 remember

that your chapter on Spencer was also tedious to my thinking.
I I I Ib"elievseuppowsaes
               rude enough to    tell you so.                found Spencer
               the fact is that   years ago

wanting, and his philosophisings on the deeper things

Iwearied me. Certainly prefer Spinoza as philosopher.
IBut just now my head is full of other things : am in the
middle of a discourse to be let off as a presidential address

to the amateur scientific folk of the South Eastern Union

of "ScItieninticfliucdSeoscieatniesatnteemxtpwt eteok. whitewash the Farbenlehre
of Goethe, that masterpiece of amateur science. Where
Iand when did  itGoienthtehesaEyc:ke' rLmasasntnunvsolduomchesv--ielpseerithigapsseinyo?u'

   can't find
may know!"

It was in 1905, two years previously, that Thompson had
                                                             Monism. In
been making a special   "stRuedcyonosf ttrhuectiiodnea   of                "a
printed paper entitled                                  and   Restatement

he discussed some of the arguments employed by the

advocates   of that school of philosophy, pointing           out  that
" there is  undoubtedly bottom truth underlying              the  idea

that life is, in its widest sense, one." But he felt the philo

sophy as interpreted by Haeckel to be very inadequate.

lSaotTceihseetoyflaRfsoetrlipgthaioepneSr,"tureidnaydwobhfiycRhTehlhiogemiospntastowendasitnhean1tt9i1tinl6edrteol"igtTihoheneL"oPnossdotmoune

matters must be deemed to be true, because the denial of

them would land us in absurdity or intellectual nihilism.

Others are statements of permissive action, which none

would dream of refusing." These he considered to repre

sent the postulates and axioms which exist in religion,

though no universal agreement on such has been formulated.
334 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   He brought forward sixteen of these postulated proposi
tions, together with the implications which they involved, and
the discussion which followed was a very deep one, in which
many members took part.

   As one of his friends said :

   " Thompson was uncompromising and sometimes severe
in exposing error, or in dissecting half-truths, or perversions
of the truth. He may also have sometimes over-emphasised
aspects of truth which appealed to the scientific mind. But
he was actuated solely by the love of truth itself, for loyalty
to it was the very instinct of his soul. If, however, he wielded
a trenchant pen, in personal touch and converse he was
gentle and genial."

   Professor Frederic L. Paxon of California, who had at
various times visited Westminster Meeting and heard

Thompson preach there, wrote the following reminiscences
in the Friends' Intelligencer of August 1916.

" Ten years ago a group of college teachers were discussing
the habits of their European colleagues, and one of them
chanced to remark that, in Europe, total abstinence was
rare. To this statement two of the group, strangers to each
                                            gTahvoem, passonp.roofItof
other, objected    vigorously,  and each                                  his
objection, the   name of Dr.      Silvanus                              was

not an accident that this name occurred simultaneously to
two casual acquaintances, for the impressive personality of
Dr. Thompson was such that men naturally seized upon his
attributes to give point and illustration to their arguments.
To many of his American acquaintances, London and

Westminster Meeting can never be the same now that he is
gone. Truly balanced, far-sighted, sane, he had much of
the practical spirituality of William Perm. He was a man
versatile beyond our American custom."

   During the terrible war years, when men's minds were in
great unsettlement, the head of the Browning Hall Settle

ment at Walworth decided to hold a week of lectures by
scientific men to show that science and religion are not

incompatible. Seven men of science, most of them Fellows
of the Royal Society, were found who were willing to give
     RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 335

t"heCsoentaindudriteysseso.f    Professor Sims  Woodhead               spoke on             the
                                                 on the "              Continuity            of
                              Life," Thompson

Religion," dealing in particular with the evolution of man's

spiritual perception.

   He had great sympathy with the work of the Browning
Settlement, and helped to find speakers to complete their

programme. He attended several meetings. He had ex

pressed much hesitancy about speaking himself, as he had

then such onerous duties at College, and it would take two

or three weeks to prepare such an address. The committee
said it was precisely because so much thought went into his

addresses that they wished to secure him.                              on  " Help
   Sir Oliver Lodge had given the first address
from the Unseen." All the addresses were afterwards pub

lished as a volume entitled Religion and Science by Seven

Men of Science, and a Dutch translation was afterwards
published at Haarlem.

  It was during the last few years of his life that Thompson

decided to publish anonymously some of the various addresses

he had given, and began to arrange and prepare them for

that purpose. He had also written down several suggested

titles. This work was interrupted by his sudden illness,

and left unfinished. T. Edmund Harvey, his son-in-law,

edited the manuscript for publication. One or two chapters

had  tthoebefinoaml itctehda,ptearndonitlywatshealstoitlme,uc"hFitnoisbeCroergorentatet,d"  that
for                                                                                         was

written.

Thompson had already prepared a preface to the book,

in which he explained that the various chapters had been

written at different times during ten years. He wrote :

" Doubtless the objection will be raised that the book
does not present a consistent whole, but is made up of frag
ments ; that there is no connected system, no unifying theo

logical basis. This is precisely so ; the chapters are merely
aperfus, and do not claim to be other. A grievous error for
                                                                       -- well-inten
ctieonnteudr,iesleapransetd,haasndbeepnioutshamt etnh--e  theologians                       a
                                                          have tried    to weave

consistent whole out of imperfect apercus, and, having
framed a system of logical consistency on this defective
336 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

basis, forthwith have branded as heresy any view of truth
tha"t   did  not fit in with  their system. .
                               of orthodoxy,   ..   the  honest  and
       To    these outcasts
                                                to

reverential seekers after spiritual enlightenment does the
author now address himself. Of several things he is pro
foundly convinced. First, that the day is gone by when the

essence of Christianity can be regarded as consisting in
either dogma or literature. . . . The author publishes this
work with the conviction that no advance in religious
thought is possible unless the quest for truth, without fear
of the consequences to accepted tradition, be ever accom
panied by at least an equal regard for the preservation of

a reverential spirit."

   The volume entitled A Not Impossible Religion, published
in 1918 by John Lane, met with an instant success, and in

two months a second edition was issued. It seemed to meet

the need of the spirit of unrest and questioning which arose
in the years of war.

   The reviews were almost unanimously favourable, and
The Times Literary Supplement, The Westminster Gazette,
The Guardian, The Daily News, The Friend, and many
others gave great praise. Most of the faults found were
those which the author had already acknowledged in his
Preface. Reviews appeared in daily papers all over the
country, from The Bristol Times and Mirror to The Monlrose

Standard. In the Nation's Book Supplement the book was

described as follows :

  "It is the loftiest idealism summed up in the words

' Follow Me,' with all their implications, that it preaches,
and there never was a time in the history of the world when
such a message might have come with greater pregnancy."

   The Christian Commonwealth said :

   " By distinguished work in his own profession, Dr.

Silvanus Thompson left no mean legacy to the world ; and
this book gives him a further title to be named among the
bridge-builders who would make the seekers of truth and
the men of faith realise that, so far from having any estrange
ment, they are brothers, whose faces are set towards the
RELIGIOUS TEACHING AND WRITINGS 337

same light. Surely it is eccentricity rather than diversity
that would prevent any man from yielding to the persua

siveness of such words as these : ' All duty is divine, every

place holy, every hour sacred, everything outward spiritu
ally correlated with the inward. And the sacraments of
God, if we would                       are not to be counted
two or seven, but  reckon them    up,  sands of the seashore.'          "as
                   are untold as  the

                   THE HIGHER MYSTERY

      "' Heaven lies about us in our infancy' ;

        We try to touch it, but the blue recedes.

        The mystery fades ; no longer can we see,
        When Knowledge seems to overthrow our creeds,
        Heaven all about us. Gone, the light of old :
        The rainbow's foot no longer touches gold.
        Yet as the years beyond, 'mid joy and pain,
        Bring fuller knowledge, to our souls again
         Comes a deep sense that life is not a show
        Ending in nothingness. God's guidings flow

        In golden threads unseen athwart the gloom.

        And we, with clearer light that knowledge brings
         Learn the deep mystery of common things,
        An earnest of the heaven which is our home."

                                              S. P. T.Jrom "Monodies."

-2-2
                  CHAPTER XVI

                                      LATER YEARS

THOMPSON    once  "latuoghbiengalyn   said  that   his ideal of rest and
retirement  was                       old   man    in a garden, with a

pipe." But those nearest to him, who witnessed his keen

interest in life, and his indomitable energy, could never

imagine him reaching such a culmination.
   The last ten years seemed just as full of endeavour and

achievement as any previous decade, in spite of the threads

of joy and grief woven into them, and the added responsi

bilities.

  In 1906 when Helen, his second daughter, was finishing

her course for the Natural Science Tripos at Newnham

College, Cambridge, the engagement and marriage of
Sylvia, the eldest, to William Hanbury Aggs, a young

barrister, one of a family who were fellow members of

Westminster Meeting, broke up his home quartette.

During the next few months the loss of his sister Rachel

Thompson, who had so often been one of the happy holiday

company when they went abroad, and of his artist brother

Thomas, were a great grief to him. He also had a long time
of anxiety about his youngest brother, Dr. Tatham Thomp

son Of Cardiff, who had to undergo a serious operation.

He seemed to make a good recovery, but about three years
later was attacked by a malignant disease from which he

died in the spring of 191 1 , leaving his family of four children
to finish their education, and to be established in careers.

Tfahme ilytwoateld"erMogrirllasndin"  succession became   members of  the
                                       while studying    in London.   So,

some years later, did Douglas, the youngest and only boy,

who was attending the Technical College, Finsbury, the

session before hia uncle's death.

                                      338
          LATER YEARS                                            339

   The years during which Thompson was writing the
Kelvin biography were almost entirely absorbed by it, and

it was some months before he made up arrears, and was

ready for fresh undertakings. He wrote in June 1910, in
answer to Sir William Crookes, Secretary of the Royal
Institution :

  I" have quite made up my mind to assent to the proposi
Ition to give the next Christmas Lectures ; and, as have
Ihad some talk with Dewar, quite see your point about the
change of outlook in the last sixty years, and will keep to

I Ione"
branch    of physics.         no  difficulty  in      occupying  the six
  think      shall have

lectures with Sound, if one may go rather far afield in some

parts that border on optics and electricity. A suitable
title seems not easy to find ; but that may wait."

   He later chose the title " Sounds Musical and Non-

Musical." Again he had crowded audiences of young and
old, and again he delighted them all with his lively explana
tion of the innumerable experiments on sound, which he

performed for them. It was hoped that the lectures might

form a companion volume to Light Visible and Invisible,
but he never succeeded in finding time to write it.

   In June 1911 he wrote to Sir Oliver Lodge, whose birth

day preceded his by a few days :

" O "SEI,XAwGhEoNAamRIAaNbou! t to follow in your train, salute you !
May the returns of the day of the year be yet many, and
joyful, and may the years be golden, and their successive
harvests of wisdom abundant. And may you never lack

friends,  old and young,  to  "grEeveet ryoturualys"  the years  go by.

                                                      yours,      P. T."
                                                      SILVANUS

To this Sir Oliver replied :

I"MY"     DEAR SlLVANtTS,    your  good  wishes       and  kind  remem
            am grateful for
Ibrance.
          had quite a number of congratulatory epistles
J.this year -- but none more welcome th"anYoyuorusrs."ev0er.,
                                                                 L."
340 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   Thompson was in joyful mood that summer, for he was

much pleased with the engagement and marriage of his
daughter Irene to T. Edmund Harvey, then Warden of
Toynbee Hall. Son of an old school-fellow, William
Harvey of Leeds, member of the Society of Friends, he
shared several special interests with Thompson, among
them the study of religion and the collection of old books.

   Before going to the Alps in August, Thompson went
with Professor Ferguson, F.R.S., to represent the Royal
Society at Breslau University, which was celebrating its
Tercentenary. He was guest of Professor 0. Lummer, the
translator of his Light Visible and Invisible, whose work on

Optics he himself had translated into English. This cele

bration was considered very important by the Germans,

and was presided over by the Crown Prince. It was a

busy and fatiguing time for Thompson, as the following

letter to his wife shows :

  I" Yesterday was so full, from morning to night, that
Icould not write a line. For the first time in my life put
on evening dress before breakfast at 8 a.m. Over this
my doctor's gown, unique of its kind amidst hundreds of
university costumes. We drove to the great hall of the
University, where the function of presenting addresses and
speech-making lasted till 2 p.m. Then lunch, then other
receptions, then a formal dinner at 5 p.m. ! which lasted
till 8 (the Crown Prince figuring at all these things). Then
a garden party in the park, with 13,000 people (?) present,
is

                                                                       2

                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                !
                                                                                                                    !

                                                                                                  (!)
                                                                                                  (9
and fireworks, and a fancy costume ball in the hall in the

park . .  . and so home to bed at a.m.          --Toa-nddaymy                                                          a.m.)
we have   just breakfasted -- in evening dress                                                                         gown
ready. The ceremonies will last till p.m."

   Leaving Breslau the same evening, Thompson travelled
across Europe and met his wife and Helen at Chamonix,
glad to spend a few days in quiet before beginning his glacier
climbing and sketching, and his informal discussions of the
problems of the universe with the professional artist and with

the professional theologian who sought his company under

the evening stars night after night.

   In the following year the Royal Society celebrated its
                     LATER YEARS  341

250th anniversary. Thompson was now serving on the

Council for a second term (the first was in 1907), so had a
busy time in connection with committees and arrangements.

Delegates, accompanied by their wives and daughters, came

from all over the world to present addresses of congratula

tion to the Society, and to share in the three days of cere

monies and festivities. Among the foreign delegates

Thompson found many old friends ; he had invited as his

guests Sir William Barrett of Dublin, and Madame Curie of

Paris, the discoverer of radium, who was, however, on the eve

of the gathering prevented by home circumstances from

coming to London. The ceremonies began with a service

in Westminster Abbey, especially arranged for the occasion,

followed by a reception at Windsor Castle, when the Presi

dent, Sir Archibald Geikie, the Council, including Thompson,

and the foreign delegates, were received in audience, and

presented to the King and Queen. Afterwards they and all
the Fellows of the Royal Society, with their wives and

daughters, were invited to the royal garden party in the

grounds of the Castle. The evening soiree at Burlington

House on the following day was a very gorgeous one ; the
Fellows and delegates appeared in various robes and hoods

which quite eclipsed even the most brilliant toilettes of the

ladies.

From about this year onwards Thompson gave more

time to the affairs of the Royal Society. He served on the

International Committee among others. He was chairman

of one which continued for several years, as it was entrusted

with superintending the catalogue of the library, and had
also the duty laid upon it of directing the preparation of

the catalogue of scientific papers. On this he rendered in

valuable service ; the director of the work, Dr. Herbert

McLeod, F.R.S., became seriously ill, and Thompson gave
many hours of his spare time in trying to fill his place. He

continued his services in this capacity until the time of his

sudden illness, and  haisfte"rwevaerdr scoaurtsepoeucsialanadcktnaocwtfluedl gemntehnut
and appreciation of

siasm for work" was published in the preface to the sub

sequent volume of the catalogue.
342 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   Another Royal Society Committee for which Thompson
acted as chairman was instituted to make enquiries as to
the manufacture of optical glass in this country, a matter
in which he had long been interested ; but it was only when
the war broke out that others than the enthusiasts woke up
to the necessity of taking active steps to encourage the
manufacturers in this country.

   Devotion to scientific work did not prevent Thompson
from taking an interest in public affairs, and, although no
politician, he sometimes, if only rarely, would express a
strong opinion. At the time when society was very much
disturbed by the controversy which was going on between
the supporters and the opponents of the granting of the
parliamentary franchise to women, and a certain party
who demanded the vote had adopted violent tactics in

striving to call attention to the grievances from which vote-

less women were suffering, Thompson showed the sympathy
which he had always felt for the women's demand.

   In 1912 a Bill to enfranchise a small proportion of women

was before Parliament ; on the morning of the day when the

second reading was to take place a long letter appeared in
The Times from a London physician, trying to prove that

women were too hysterical, and too unbalanced as a sex to
be trusted with the power of the vote, and arguing that
their interests were quite fully and sufficiently considered by
their male relations.

   The letter caused a storm of indignation among a great
many women engaged in philanthropic and public work, but
it came very conveniently for the opposers of the Bill in the
House of Commons, who did not fail to quote its arguments
in the debate. The Bill was lost. Next morning there
appeared in The Times th'e following letter from Thompson :

   "SiR", Sir Almroth Wright's trenchant letter would carry
more weight if it did not ignore or deny the one thing which

has made into advocates of the suffrage many women who
are bitterly opposed to the deplorable tactics of the Pank-
hurst rabble. That thing is the continued violation by
law, and under the aegis of law, of the very ' covenant ' which
LATER YEARS                                                     343

Sir Almroth Wright declares to be within the frontiers of
civilisation ! There is, in fact, a continued failure, both of

the law as administered and of the unwritten code of social

law, to put an end to crimes against the person of women.
The absurdly low sentences against men convicted of assault,

the utterly inadequate protection against seduction, the

tolerance by society of a double standard of morals in the
premarital state, the advocacy, even by an eminent Judge,
odfivoarncein--eqthueasleityarbeettwheeenthmingasn              in the laws of
                                                    and woman   the lie to Sir
                                                    which give
Almroth Wright's complacent assumption, that under this
covenant a full half of the programme of Christianity has

bee"nHraelaflisoef dt.he facts having been conveniently omitted, his
argument from physiology is at least half a fallacy ; and

even a fallacy need not degenerate into a tirade."

   Thompson received letters of thanks from several women,
including Mrs. Hertha Ayrton, Lady Barlow, and some of

the women physicians and surgeons, and earned the gratitude
of many of the younger university women, including his
own daughters Helen and Dorothea.

   During these later years Thompson received several marks

of recognition from academic bodies, and was always frankly

pleased and interested by such honours. In 1909 the newly

constituted University of Birmingham took the step of con

ferring honorary degrees upon a number of distinguished
men and women. Thompson was the recipient of the Hon.

LL.D., and was presented to the Vice-Chancellor by Principal
Sir Oliver Lodge in the following words :

   " The Principal of the Finsbury Technical College, London,
an able and renowned electrician, is the author of many
standard treatises, highly valued by electrical engineers,
and is exceptionally familiar with scientific history. Brilliant
as a lecturer and expositor, skilled as an artistic draughts
man, clear-headed as a thinker, and learned as an historian of

Iscience, he has maintained a wide interest in many depart

ments of study, and it is with pleasure that present a friend
well known to many of us, SUvanus Phillips Thompson."

   Three years later he had the gratification of revisiting the
old College at Bristol, now constituted a University, to
344 LIFE OP SILVANUS THOMPSON

receive an honorary degree of Doctor of Science. That he

was still remembered there was evidenced by the applause
with which he was greeted when he went up for presentation.

   In June 1913 Thompson wrote to T. Bailey Saunders :

"  DEA" RIt  T.  B.  S.,                             I received to-day
                 my  turn
             is            to  ask  for  succour.

a marvellous     Latin diploma, informing me       that the  Accademia
delle Scienze     at Bologna (oldest of the        Italian   Academies)

Ihad"elected  me as a Foreign Member.                If it had been
        must   write an acknowledgment.
Iin Italian would have vamped up some elegant nonsense
by way of gracious thanks for election to so distinguished a
Ibody.                                               and brain activity
Ienough,                                             duly thumbing a
           But it is in Latin ! Had        an hour,
            and an inspiration,          might by
                                    a lame and clumsy attempt.
dictionary concoct   atcombees--t   ' Ask your best friend among
The inspiration has                                          amicorum
                 frame you a reply.' So therefore,
the scholars to  the honour to excoct a gorgeous             epistle of
intime, do me

tha"nkTso  suitable  to the occasion.    phosphorescence     of  the
           drag in   references to the
Bologna stone, shining in darkness, or to the marvellous
consequences of Galvani's observations of frogs' legs spas
mo"dBicuatllythekicAkcicnagdewmeiare ispesrohafapms oruesduanbdoadnty.--vide its history
in Minerva --that the honour it has accorded to my unworthy
Iself requires                              shall    find my     head
Iswelling if                              letting    of blood    --by
                 some unusual response.
                 cannot compass a little

de"puAtnyd! your petitioner will ever pr"aSya!laams," S. P. T."

   Foreign travel occupied a great part of Thompson's leisure
in 1913. Early in March he had to spend a few days in
Cologne, as in 1912, in connection with the Electrotechnical
Commission. He wrote from the Dom-Hotel to his wife :

I I" Professor
   have had a
                  Budde is expected here in           an hour's time.
                 delightful walk by the Rhine
                                                     since breakfast --

in brilliant sunshine, and with a frost-nip in the air.          have

just been lunching in the self-same dining-room where,
many years ago, we brought four hungry little girls, whose
LATER YEARS  345

eyes glistened and opened wide at the gorgeous beefsteak
garni which was served to us, when we lunched here on our
way to the Schwartzwald. Those are happy memories."

   Easter vacation was spent in Florence, when he and his

wife stayed with her sister, Mrs. J. W. Cruickshank, and her

husband in their villa on the hill near San Miniato. Thomp
son spent a good many afternoons in the ancient libraries

among his favourite manuscripts and books. A few days

were also devoted to the art treasures of Siena, and a flying
visit was paid to his friend Professor Righi at Bologna.

   A holiday in Switzerland and Savoy, followed by a visit

to Berlin to attend the Conference of the International
Electrotechnical Commission, completed his travels that

year.
   About this time Thompson felt obliged to decline the offer

of an important, but rather arduous and not very remunera
tive piece of work, and received the following from the
scientific friend of many years, through whom it had come :

  I" was greatly disappointed when reading your letter,
Ibut quite understand. . . . You have done great work in

your life, and not merely in electricity, not merely in
physical science, but your faculties have been so cultivated
that you have sent out sympathetic tentacles in all directions
and give comfort to others without seeming to exert yourself.
You must be very proud of your career, and you will leave
your daughters what is much more important than thousands
of pounds. To me personally your conduct has been of
great value on countless occasions."

   As may have been gathered from previous pages,
Thompson had no very great admiration for the philosophical
teaching of Herbert Spencer, but, as a psychologist and

biologist, he regarded him as a great man. Therefore,
when he was invited in 1914 to go down to St. Leonards
to unveil a Memorial to Herbert Spencer, who had lived and

worked there during the last few years of his life, he willingly
consented. The ceremony took place whilst a Pageant
of Heroes was being held at Hastings. Thompson gave an
346 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

address, dealing with the different fields of thought covered

by the writings of Spencer, whom he claimed as Hero as

Thinker, equally to be recognised by the side of the poete

and dramatists, and the more familiar men of action.

  In the latter part of the address he dealt sympathetically

whiisthessSapyenocner"'sThideeaRseboafrbsaorcisiaaltiornefoorfmE, ngalnadnd,q"uowterdittefnromto

show the social after-effects of the Boer War. He closed

bwyassaoynieng"  that   the hero whom they were      commemorating
                 who   could stand in the fa«e of a   crowd, and say

an unpopular thing which he believed to be right ; one who

loved truth for its own sake, and who never hesitated to

stand for truth, when he felt it to be in place."

After a busy session, and the fulfilment of many engage

ments, the prospect of rest and holiday was eagerly looked

forward to by Thompson this year, and he had planned to

go to a new field for sketching and painting.

   About the middle of July, he and his wife started for Lake

Misurina, travelling through Switzerland and via the

Brenner Pass into Tirol. Then, crossing the frontier, they

settled down in an hotel on the banks of the lake surrounded

by the Dolomites of the Italian Alps.

He had begun some promising paintings of the mountains

from various points of view, when quite unexpectedly his

holiday was interrupted by the news of the declaration

by Austria of war against Serbia. A few days before a

number of Austrians in the hotel had taken their departure,

saying that they feared that war was coming, for the tone

of the Austrian newspapers was ominous. But, being over
the Pass, and actually in Italy, Thompson did not realise

the danger, and they were still intending to return to Switzer

land through the Trentino, when on August 1st a telegram

brought the news that Germany was mobilising against

Russia and France.

At once a stampede began among the visitors of all nation

alities, all seeking to get away from the frontier. On Sunday

some English friends of the Thompsons and most of the

Germans managed to secure carriages, and went off down

the Pass into Austria.
LATER YEARS  347

   On August 2nd Thompson wrote to the Registrar of the

College :

   " We are avoiding Austria by going down into Italy, and
back into Switzerland through the Gotthard Tunnel. We
expect to reach Hotel Belvedere, Furka Pass, Switzerland,
on August 5th, and to stay there three or four days. After
that Hotel Victoria, Brieg, till about August 12th."

   This did not reach its destination until August 26th, for

all international postal communication seemed to come to

a dead stop for two or three weeks. Thompson was anxious
to communicate, too, with his daughter Helen, who had

gone to the Oberland on a walking expedition, in company
with a college friend ; they had arranged to meet at Brieg

on August 12th. That Sunday was spent in walking, with
minds full of anxiety and dismay, round the beautiful
Lake Misurina, the great dread being lest Italy should
come into the war on the side of her former Allies.

   Early on the Monday they managed to secure a carriage
and horses for the long drive down to the railway line. The
drive through Cadore, the country of Titian, was glorious.
A year later the same places were the scenes of most terrible

battles, and every village was reduced to a ruin.

   At Belluno station they found themselves in a throng of
refugees from the Tirol, Americans, French, Italians.

   Arriving at Milan, next day, they found the Swiss frontier
closed to all except Swiss people, so Thompson had to
make up his mind to stay in Italy until some other way of
returning to England should open out. The shock to him

of hearing that England had declared war against Germany
was very great, though, after hearing of the German invasion

of Belgium, he admitted that there seemed no other course
open to the Government. He was also very anxious about

Helen, telegraphing to friends in Switzerland and in England
to try to find out where she was ; at length in ten days a
reply reached him that she was safe. But he never quite

recovered from the strain ; happily in Milan he had some
kind friends amongst the electrical engineers, who assisted
him in many ways.
348 LITE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

   The plight of friendless and stranded tourists, unable to
change notes and cheques, was very much worse, and the
various consular offices were besieged. About the middle
of August the British Embassy, acting with the Consuls in
various towns, chartered a White Star liner The Cretic, which
was lying in Genoa harbour. All intending passengers had

to prove their British nationality to the Consul at Genoa
before being allowed to sail. This caused much delay, and
a number of Englishmen, including Thompson, formed a
committee to help the Consul with this duty. Spite of all,

some very dubious characters got on board, and thefts were

frequent during the voyage.

   All passengers had to pay first class fare, but the very
poor went free. There were over 700 on board, and only

cabins for 400. The rest had to go down into the emigrants'

quarters. Women and children were allotted cabins first,
then a few of the older men. The heat in the Mediterranean

was intense. In writing to his sister, Mrs. Brockbank, after

their return Thompson described the voyage :

" We had a scratch crew of Lascars on board, so the
                    uasunailghcot mppaletrmolenatmoonf gstethweamrdsse--lveasn. d
passengers formed                                                                  We
had only half the                                                                  not
a single stewardess on board. The meals the first day were
a kind of free fight, after that they settled down. The food
was unappetising, and all the plates and cups and knives

we"reHdaiprptyil.y, and it was the one saving thing--the weather
was superb. Even the Bay of Biscay was like an oiled mill-
pond. Janie was not ill at all, and only one day did she
stay on deck for meals. We stopped three hours in Gibraltar
harbour, and had no adventures with cruisers, though one
nig"hWt weehawderqeuoitredeareladrgteo  put the
                                        number   lights out.       on board,
                                                 of acquaintances

chiefly people whom we had met at Alpine resorts in Switzer
la-n"dSion
            former  years.              discomforts  of dirt, and vermin,
            beyond  the physical
and overcrowding, there was not much to complain of,
beyond general lack of management of the ship. But
neither of us would wish to repeat the experience of being
refugees again. There were many poor creatures worse off

than we, who had no money, who had lost their baggage, or
                LATER YEARS                              349

who had no friends to go to. Their miseries were reflected
in the general state of depression, until the last two days
as we neared England. Had the weather been stormy
the state of things (during these nine days) would have
been truly dreadful."

   The captain was sailing under sealed orders, and it was
not until the last day that the passengers knew, that they

were to be landed at Liverpool. People in England knew,

however, and a list of those on board had been published

in the papers. So, on landing, the Thompsons received a

warm welcome from the Birkenhcad Thompson cousins,

and their own two daughters Sylvia and Dorothea, who had

come away from the East Coast and brought the little

granddaughter Gulielma Mary Aggs to safer quarters in the

West.      and  Gulielma  came  back  with  them  to  "  Morland,"
   Sylvia

but they had another week of anxious waiting until Helen

and her friends reached London on August 28th, having

come across France to Dieppe in special trains run by the

Swiss and French Governments to bring back refugees. At

that tune the Germans seemed to be sweeping on to Boulogne.

Every week brought increasing perplexity as to the future

carrying on of the College, as numbers of the young assist

ants and older students volunteered, or applied for com

missions in the new armies which were being formed.

Thompson had no heart for painting now, brushes and

paints were laid aside, and never taken up again, though
one of his 1913 glacier pictures appeared on the walls of

the Royal Academy in 1915.

Soon after College opened the young son of Professor

Omer De Bast of Liege had to flee to England, and came
with a letter to Thompson from his father. The boy, Yves,

was anxious to go on with his studies in science, in prepara
tion for a medical career. Thompson invited him to live

with him, and obtained a free place for him at University

College, where he studied for a session, and then was
called up to be trained for military service in the Belgian

army.

Thompson became much attached to him, and Yves,
350 LIFE OF STLVANUS THOMPSON

aresci"prmocoantinsgecotnhdee  affection,  always    afterwards         spoke of him
                                pere."

Thompson gave this autumn a course of university

lectures on Magnetism at University College. He wrote

in December to his wife :

" My third and last University Lecture went off very well.
I think the audience was a little larger than at the previous
Itwo. Carey Foster came up to town for it.                              finished a

little review of               the Life  loefctuLrueb.bocIkt  for The   Friend last
night after my                                                is quite  interesting,
                               evening

tho"ugAht  the  author has no style.                 Monday      afternoon  the
           the  College Committee on

members present were very gloomy about the prospects of
the Institute in this crisis. They say that several of the
Companies have been very hard hit. About your question
in your last letter, the new Thermophone is interesting as a
Ipiece of scientific apparatus ; but it is not a very practical
thing.    --a  had   caouvritseitoutso-odnaey--atto  College from a post office
official       very                                  look for my (non-existent)

wireless installation, which he had orders to seal up ! He
did not propose to capture any of my coils or Leyden

Jars!"

   One of Thompson's scientific friends did not get off so
lightly over the question of his wireless installations ; he
was attacked in one of the spy-hunting newspapers, and
Thompson wrote a vigorous letter to the press in his

defence, explaining the real facts of the case.
   The Christmas of 1914 was a sad one for Thompson,

for private grief at the death of his favourite sister, Marie
Brockbank, after a few days' illness, was added to the public
sorrow, and to depression caused by the growth of hatred
and war-fever around him.

   Next spring brought increasingly hard work at the

College, as his colleague, Professor Meldola, who had been
overworking very much at chemical advisory work for the
Government, was attacked by serious illness and had to
undergo an operation. Also a considerable part of the

laboratory space of the College was commandeered for
army research work purposes.
LATER YEARS  351

    Professor Meldola recovered, and was able to act as
chairman to the research department of British Dyes, in
which three of his former students at the Technical College
took prominent part, Dr. C. T. Morgan, F.R.S., Professor

W. J. Pope, F.R.S., and Dr. M. O. Forster, F.R.S. The

last-named had helped to carry on the chemical work at
College during Professor Meldola' s illness. This part
played by college students was a gratification to Thompson.

   As the war progressed the increasing hatred shown in this
country towards Germans was a great trouble to him, and
utterances by the clergy with regard to this led him to

make both public and private protests.
   One of the latter led to a correspondence with his old

friend, Canon Wilson of Worcester, which was quite friendly,

though he failed to convince him. He also wrote to a

Swedish paper, Svenska Dagbladet, which was making
enquiries in European countries as to the effect of the war
on international co-operation for progress in science.
Thompson, who was on the Nobel prize committee, expressed

his opinion that :

   " Men of good- will in all nations (including nations now
combatant) will see to it that the evil passions of jealousy,
distrust, domination, and hate shall not be permitted to
interfere with progress and civilisation. These passions are
the causes of war, not its consequences. When this war ia
ended those who continue to foster these passions will be
the enemies of mankind and of progress, in whatever nation
they are found."

   Towards the end of the year the Council of the Institu
tion of Electrical Engineers, urged thereto by some of its
members, tried to bring forward a resolution expelling
all members of enemy origin or nationality. Knowing

how much electrical engineering owed to German inven

tions and improvements, Thompson vigorously opposed this.
He succeeded so far that, when the resolution was put
before the special general meeting in March 1916, there was

a considerable divergence of opinion, and finally, after an
adjourned meeting, it was decided not to expel members
352 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

of enemy origin who bad been naturalised, and were

'approved by the Council.

Although led by hia convictions into opposition to many

of his oldest friends, Thompson's views were always sym

pathetically received, being, as many of them felt, and said,

in harmony with his actions and conduct throughout life.

During the summer of that year Dorothea, who had

become very seriously affected by the asthma trouble from

which she suffered, was ordered to take a long voyage, as

the only hope of checking the disease. Early in August she

started with her sister Helen for New Zealand via the Cape.

  It was just at the time that the submarines were beginning

to attack steamers, and Thompson had an anxious time

until a cable from Cape Town announced their safety, and

much improved health for the invalid.
   Not long after, the sudden death of Professor Raphael

Meldola, his colleague of thirty years, gave him a great shock.
His other colleague Professor Margetson, who had not long

succeeded Professor E. G. Coker, was not sufficiently ex

perienced in the work of the Technical College to be able

to help and counsel him as Professor Meldola had done.
   This loss, supervening on his hard work, made him

seriously ill. He consulted a physician, who warned him

that he must take great care, and rest more, a counsel
which it was impossible for him to follow. The work at

College, however, through the circumstances of the war,

was to some extent lightened in that the Evening Classes

Department had to be closed in consequence of the air

raids.

Christmas was spent quietly at home, and his eldest

daughter brought her two little children, Gulielma and

Silvanus Hanbury Aggs, to cheer up the contracted circle.

    One  dHeosfucgriToph'tsioomn"spLso'oAfnr'stthefda'levittorteuleritg"eraGnpedooperegmreess."   had long been
                                                                                                     He delighted
Victor
in its                                                                                           et Jeanne," and

he now greatly enjoyed practising that art himself.

"IWriting at the close of the year to his old friend Conrad
Cooke, he says :  have my two grandchildren staying with

me : the girl aged three and a half, the boy nine months.
SII.VANUS P. THOMPSON AND HIS FIBST GBANDCHILD, GULIELMA                              MARY
                                                 Aoos.

                                I-roni a photograph taken by T. Edmonds Hull In 1011
                           LATER YEARS                          353

They are a perfect delight, and most entertaining com

panions." In the same letter he says :

  I" In spite of all the war wearinesses, and overwork that

it entails, am finding every now and then odd moments
Ito
   "rewhraitvee  my book   on the Electro-magnet.      it  may  take
                 now been
                            eight years over it ; and

a year or two more."

   After the safe return of Helen from New Zealand, where
she had left her sister in much improved health, Thompson
accompanied Sylvia and the grandchildren on their return to
Amersham, where he spent a quiet week.

   During the next three months, while still actively going
about his duties, his friends noticed, with growing anxiety,
how tired and exhausted he often looked.

   The appointment to the Chair of Chemistry of Dr. G. T.
Morgan, who had been trained in the Finsbury tradition,
was a help to him, but many details had of course to be

readjusted and arranged.

   In March, however, he found time to prepare and deliver

a Friday evening discourse at the Royal Institution, on
the phenomena of the Electric Corona, which was given
with his usual ease and richly illustrated by interesting

experiments.

   Owing to the darkening of London streets, the Friday
gatherings of members now took place before seven o'clock,
and were in consequence shorn of many of their attractions,
and often very small.

   For several months another of Thompson's old friends,
Sir William Ramsay, had been gradually going down into
the valley of the shadow of death, suffering from a painful
illness, from which there was no hope of recovery. Thomp
son visited him several times out at High Wycombe, and
after the last occasion Lady Ramsay wrote :

  I I" have two of the very kindest letters ever had to

thank you for. Your visit was a real treat to my husband,
and later on it would be really kind to repeat it. You
brought an atmosphere of peace and brightness, and it
remained. Perhaps you might telephone in case it was one

        23
354 LIFE OF SILVANUS THOMPSON

of my husband's bad days, and it would be well to avoid
that."

Soon after this Thompson and his wife went for three

weeks to Bath. He always enjoyed this old and beautiful

city, and the fine country surrounding it. The visit seemed

to bring him much benefit, and he returned looking brisk

and fresh to take up his tasks again.

The passing of the Compulsory Military Service Acts

brought great and special anxieties to members of the

Society of Friends. Although a conscience clause had been
put into the Act, yet it was left to the discretion of tribunals,

often  wiagsno"raconnt,scaienndtiomusilit"aroisrt   in   spirit,   to  decide whether a
man                                                not,   with    the  consequence that

very soon well-known Quakers were being court-martialled
for refusing to obey military orders, and older men who

published protests against this also became liable to trial

under the Defence of the Realm Act.

The Yearly Meeting in May was a time of great anxiety

to the older Friends, and Thompson took his share in the

deliberations. On the last Sunday of the month he was

aonppo"inWtehdat  to give a special  address             at Westminster Meeting
                    the Society of   Friends             stands for." He spoke

calmly and eloquently for an hour, without once referring

to his notes, and his address made a deep impression upon

the congregation.

   The lowering to eighteen of the age of those who came
under the Military Service Acts seemed to bring con

sequences which were very hard for Thompson to bear,

both for the Students themselves, and because of the needs

of the country for trained chemists and engineers.
   At eighteen the students were just finishing their second

year's course, and for many it meant the rum of their

scientific career to be interrupted then. This was especially

true in the case of the chemists, and by great effort Thompson

succeeded in getting exemption for some of them through

the Education Office.

But grief and worry and overwork told on him severely.

One Saturday morning he went to the College to try and
LATER YEARS  355

arrange for the exemption of one of the assistants. He was
disappointed in his efforts, and that evening seemed very
tired and exhausted.

   Early on Sunday morning he had an attack of cerebral
hemorrhage, which rapidly rendered him unconscious, and
he passed peacefully away on Monday night, June 12th,
a week before his sixty-fifth birthday.

   After cremation, his ashes were placed in the burial-
ground near the Old Friends' Meeting House, at Jordans,
Buckinghamshire, which he had sometimes visited and

admired.

   A memorial Meeting was held at Westminster Meeting

House in St. Martin's Lane. It was crowded by fellow

members of the congregation, large numbers of old students,
and many scientific men who represented all the Societies
and other bodies with which he had been connected.

   There were, besides, many other representatives of litera

ture, art, and science, and many old friends.
   The Meeting was solemn and reverent. Lines from

Browning quoted by Edward Grubb, an old friend of him

whom they mourned, seemed very appropriate :

    " One who never turned his back, but marched breast forward,
          Never doubted clouds would break,

       Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph.
       Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better,

                                Sleep to wake."
                       APPENDIX

      LIST OF HONOURS AND DEGREES, ETC.

1867  Matriculation in the University of London.
1869  Bachelor of Arts, London.
1875  Fellow of Royal Astronomical Society.
1875  Bachelor of Science, London.
1875
1878  Member of Physical Society of London.
1882  Doctor of Science, London.
      Member of Society of Telegraph Engineers and Electri
1883
1886     cians.

1886  Honorary Member of Physical Society of Frankfurt-am-M.
1890  Member of the National Electric Light Association
1890
1890  (U.S.A.).                     Institution of Great  Britain.
1890  Member           "RoSyeattle  of Odd Volumes."
1890  Member  of  the
              of  the
1891
1891  President of the Junior Institution of Engineers.

1894  Member of the Council of the Sooiete de Physique, Paris.

1894  Vice-President of the Physical Society, London.

1897  Hon. Vioe-President of the Electrical Exhibition, Frank
1897
1898  furt.

1899  Fellow of the Royal Society.

1899  Member of the Administrative Committee of the Societe

      Internationale des Electriciens.

      Foreign Member of the Royal Academy of Science,

      Stockholm.

      Hon. Degree of Doctor of Medicine and Surgery, Univer

      sity of Konigsberg.

      Hon. Member of Yorkshire Philosophical Society.

      First President of the Roentgen Society, London.

      Foreign Member of the Associazione Elettro-technica

      Italians.

      Diploma de Benemerenza, International Electrical Con

      gress, Como.

      President of the Institute of Electrical Engineers.

                                    356
                              APPENDIX                    357

1899 Freeman of the City of London.

1900 Elected Member of the Senate of the University of

      London.

1900 Honorary Member of the Roentgen Society.

1901-2 President of the Physical Society of London.
1902 Member of the American Philosophical Society, Phila

      delphia.

1902 Foreign Member of the Societe Neerlandaise des Sciences.

1902 President of the Hampstead Scientific Society.

1902 President of the Friends' Guild of Teachers.

1903 Honorary Member of the Optical Society.

1904 Honorary Fellow of the Royal Microscopical Society.

1905  President  of  ththee"  Optical Society.
1905  President  of            Sette of Odd Volumes."

1905 Honorary Member (number limited) of The Essex Field
            Club.

1907 Member of the Council of the Royal Society.

1907 President of the South-Eastern Union of Scientific

1907      Societies.
1909
1909  II.Member of the Athenaeum Club, elected under Rule
1911
      First President of the Society of Illuminating Engineering.
      Honorary Degree LL.D., University of Birmingham.
      Honorary Member of the Friends' Guild of Teachers.

1912 President of the Optical Convention (Second).
1912 Honorary Degree D.Sc., University of Bristol.

1913 Foreign Member, Accademia delle Scienze, Bologna.

1914 Honorary Member of the American Institute of Electrical

      Engineers.

1914 Vice-President of the Institute of Ophthalmic Opticians.

      Vice-President of the Selborne Society.

      LIST OF PRINTED BOOKS

1879  Technical Education.
1881  Elementary Lessons in Electricity and Magnetism.
1883  Life of Philipp Reis, Inventor of the Telephone.
1884
1890  Dynamo-electric Machinery.
1891
1895  Translation of Guillemin's Physique (Electricity).
1896  The Electromagnet and Electromagnetic Mechanisms.
1898  Polyphase Electric Currents.
      Light Visible and Invisible.
      Life of Faraday.
358 APPENDIX

1900 Photographic Optics. From the German of 0. Lu miner.

1903 Design of Dynamos.
1906 The Manufacture of Light.
1910 Life of Lord Kelvin.
1910 Calculus made Easy (by F.R.S.).
1912 Translation of Huyghens' Treatise on Light.
1915 The Quest for Truth.
1918 (posthumous) A Not Impossible Religion.

                                                                            *<

                            PRIVATELY PRINTED

1891  William Sturgeon the Electrician.
1891
      Gil(bOeprtuscouflumColocfhe"steSrett:e  An Elizabethan Magnetizer.
1893                                          of Odd Volumes ")
1898  The Magick Mirrour of Old Japan (Opusculum, O.V.).
      Reprint (with preface), Two Tracts on Electricity and
1900  Magnetism by the Hon. Robert Boyle (Opusculum,

1902     O.V.).                                           the
      Notes on the De Magnete of Gilbert, to accompany
1903
1903     Gilbert Club translation.
1903
1903  Translation of the Epistola de Magnete of Petrus Pere-

1905     grinus.
      The Family and Arms of Gilbert of Colchester.
      Gilbert: Physician.

      Gilbert of Colchester, Father of Electrical Science.
      William Gilbert and Terrestrial Magnetism in the Time of

         Queen Elizabeth.
      The Pied Piper of Hamelin (Opusculum, O.V.).

ADDRESSES AND COMMUNICATIONS TO SOCIETIES,
                                          ETC.

                                                           1876

On Some Phenomena of Induced Electric Sparks (Phil. Mag.,
       Proc. Physical Soc.).

                                                            1877

On the Chromatic Aberration of the Eye in Relation to the
      Perception of Distance (Phil. Mag.).

Note on a Curious Effect of the Absorption of Light (Phil. Mag.).
On Interference Fringes within the Nicol Prism (Proc. Physical

        Soc.).
                    APPENDIX                          359

On an Improved Lantern Galvanoscope (Brit. Assoc.).
On the Relative Apparent Brightness in Monocular and Bino

       cular Vision (Brit. Assoc.).
Some New Optical Illusions (Brit. Assoc.).

ISur les Figures Stroboscopiques (Bull. Soc. Francaise de Physique).

Binaural Audition, Part (Phil. Mag.).
Methods of Physical Science (Introductory Address, Bristol

       University College).

                         1878

On Technical Education. Where it should be given (Social

Science Congress).

On Permanent Plateau's Films (Phil. Mag., Proc. Physical

Soc.).

Magnetic Figures illustrating Electrodynamic Relations (Phil.
Mag., Proc. Physical Soc.).
New Magnetic Figures (Brit. Assoc.).
On Certain Phenomena accompanying Rainbows (Brit. Assoc.,
    IIPhil. Mag.).
                         (Brit. Assoc., Phil. Mag.).
Binaural Audition, Part
L' Audition Binauriculaire (Assoc. Fra^aise par 1'Avancement

       des Sciences).

J.On Unilateral Conductivity in Tourmaline Crystals (in con

      junction with Dr. O. Lodge) (Brit. Assoc., Phil. Mag.).

                                                    1879

Apprenticeship Scientific and Unscientific (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
Suggested Scheme for a Central Institution for Technical Educa

      tion.
On the Retardation of Phase Vibrations transmitted by Tele

      phone (Brit. Assoc.).
Notes from the Physical Laboratory of University College,

      Bristol (Phil. Mag.).
The Pseudophone (Phil. Mag.).
The Action of Magnets on Mobile Conductors of Current (Phil.

       Mag.).
A Study in Magnetism (Nature).
On a Law of Retinal Activity (Brit. Assoc., Section D).

                                                           1880

Apprenticeship of the Future (Contemporary Review, Sept.).
Apprenticeship Schools in France.
360 APPENDIX

Lecture Experiments in Acoustics (Phil. Mag.).
Optical Illusions of Motion (Brain, October).
The First Telephone (Bristol Naturalists' Soc.).
Science Readings for the Magic Lantern in three parts. Mag

      netism and Electricity, Telephone, Microphone and Phono

      graph, Electric Light and New Inventions.
On the Electric Conductivity and Dichroic Absorption of Tour

      maline (Brit. Assoc.).

                         1881

IIIThe Storage of Electricity (Jour, of Soc. of Arts).
Binaural Audition, Part  (Phil. Mag.).

On the Conservation of Electricity and the Absolute Scale of

    Electric Potential (Phil. Mag.).

On Volta-Electrio Inversion (Brit. Assoc.).
On  the Opacity of Tourmaline Crystals (Phil. Mag.).
On  a New Polarising Prism (Brit. Assoc., Phil. Mag.,    Jour,  de

    Physique ; Centralzeitung f. Optik. u. Mech., 1882.

Notes on the Construction of the Photophone (Phil. Mag.).
Labour and Science (Jour, of National Chamber of Trade).

                                                           1882

How can Technical Education be best associated with Primary

       Schools ? (Social Science Congress).
Dynamo-Electric Machinery. Cantor Lectures (Jour. Soc. of

       Arts).
On the Electric Resistance of Carbon under Pressure (Phil. Mag.).
The Age of Electricity. Introductory Lecture, University

      College, Bristol.
A New Phonautograph.
The Beats of Mistuned Consonance (Phil. Mag.).
On the Function of Two Ears in the Perception of Space (Phil.

       Mag.).

                                                           1883

Remarks on Contact Resistance (Jour. Soc. Telegraph Engineers
       and Electricians).

On the Graphic Representation of the Law of Efficiency of an
      Electric Motor (Phil. Mag.).

Recent Researches on Dynamo-electric Generators (Proc. Bristol
       Naturalist Soc.).

Polarising Prisms (Phil. Mag. ; English Mechanic, 962 ; Jour.
       Roy. Microsc. Soc.).

Experiments on Bolometry (Brit. Assoc.).
APPENDIX  361

                                                           1884

Recent Progress in Dynamo-Electric Machinery (Jour. Soc. of
       Arts).

Note on the Theory of the Magnetic Balance of Hughes (Proc.
       Roy. Soc.).

On a Modified Resistance Balance (Phil. MagJ.
On the Adjustment of Resistance Coils (Phil. Mag.).
On a New Insulating Support (Phil. Mag.).

Communication on Contact Pressure (J.our. Soc. Telegraph
       Engineers and Electricians).

                                                           1885

Lectures on Waves [Juvenile Lectures] (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
Apparatus for the Automatic Extinction of Fires (Jour. Soc. of

       Arts).

                                                           1886

On Maintaining Tuning-forks by Electricity (Phil. Mag.).
Law of the Electromagnet and the Dynamo (Phil. Mag.).
Further Notes on the -Formulae of the Electromagnet and the

      Dynamo (Phil. Mag.).
German Translation of the above by Exner in Repertorium der

       Physik.
Notes on some New Polarising Prisms (Jour, of Roy. Micros.

      Soc., Phil. Mag.).

                                                           1887

The Present Position of the Technical Instruction Question

      (Conference on T. I., London, Nov. 1887).

Die Neuesten Fortschritte in Dynamo-elektrischen Maschinen
       (Jahrbuch f. Ekktrotechnik).

Note on the Electrodeposition of Alloys (Proc. Roy. Soc.).
On an Arc-lamp suitable for use with the Duboscq Lantern

      (Phil. Mag.).
Twin Prisms for Polarimeters (Proc. Mag.).

                                                           1888

The Development of the Mercurial Air-pump (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
On the Formulae for the Lighting Power of Magnets (Phil. Mag.).
Note on the Conditions of Self-excitation in a Dynamo Machine

      (Phil. Mag.).
Some Experiments on Electro-magnetic Action (Electrician,

       Sept.). .
362 APPENDIX

On Electrical Theory (Electrician, Nov.)
The Influence Machine from 1788-1888 (Jour. Soc. Telegraph

       Engineers and Electricians).

On a Modified Water-dropping Influence Machine (I'hil. Mag.).
Note on Continuous Current Transformers (Phil. Mag.).
On the Price of the Factor of Safety in the Materials for Light-

       ning-rods (/'/<//. Mag.).

1889

Arc-lamps and their Mechanism (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
On the Magnetic Action of Displacement Currents in a Dielectric

       (Proc. Roy. Soc.).                                        Roy.
Note on Polarising Apparatus for the Microscope (Jour.

    IMicros. Soc.).

Notes on Geometrical Optics, Part (Phil. Mag.).
Optical Torque [Friday Discourse] (Royal Institution).

                                                           1890

The Organisation of Secondary and Technical Education in
      London (Jour. Soc. of Arts).

The Electromagnet. Cantor Lectures (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
The Physical Foundation of Music. Discourse (Royal Institution).
Electro-magnetic Mechanisms. Presidential Address (Junior

       Engineering Soc.).

                                                           1891

The Measurement of Lenses (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
Das Neue Gebiet der Alternierende Strome. Vortrag. (Frankfurt-

       am-M. : Bericht dt# InternationalTM Elektrotechniker-Kon-
        gress&i).
Electricity in Mining. Lecture to Working Men (Brit. Assoc.).
On the Use of Fluor-spar in Optical Instruments (Phil. Mag.).
On the Focometry of Lenses and Lens-combinations (Proc. Roy.
        Soc.).
On Galvano-hysteresis. Prelim. Note (Proc. Roy. Soc.).

                                                           1892

On the Physics of the Voltaic Arc (Brit. Assoc.).

                                                           1893

Practical Electrical Problems at Chicago (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
Ocean Telephony. Pamphlet.
Some Notes on Photometry (Phil. Mag, Proc. Physical Soc.)
APPENDIX  363

                                                           1894

Notes on Rotatary Field Motors (Electrician).
On the Design and Winding of Alternate-current Electromagnets

      (Phil. Mag.).
Electromagnets. S. P. T. and Miles Walker (Phil. Mag.).
Transformations of Electric Currents. Discourse (Royal Institu

       tion).

                                                           1895

The Arc Light. Cantor Lectures (Jour. Soc. of Art-s).
Mirrors of Magnetism. S. P. T. and Miles Walker (Phil. Mag.).
Note on a Neglected Experiment of Ampere (Phil. Mag.).
Note on the Cause of the Differences in Lichtenberg's Dust

       Figures. Preliminary Note (Proc. Roy. Soc.).

                                                          1896

The Making of a Great University for London (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
Some Experiments with Roentgen's Rays (Phil. Mag.).
Electric Shadows and Luminescence. Discourse (Royal Institu

       tion).
On Hyperphosphorescence (Phil. Mag., Proc. Roy. Soc.).

Luminescence (Oxford University Jun. Sc. Club).
More X-ray Myths (Electrician).
Kathode, X-, and Becquerel Rays (Brit. Assoc.).

Hyperphosphorescence (Brit. Assoc.).

                                                     1897

Reforms in the Organisation of Technical Education (Jour . Soc.
        of Arts).

 Presidential Address to the Roentgen Society.
 Cathode Rays and Some Analogous Rays (Proc. Roy. Soc. Phil.

        Trans. Roy. Soc., 1898).
 Peter Short, Printer, and his Marks (Bibliographical Soc.).

                                                          1898

Telegraphy Across Space [Silver Medal] (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
Electric Traction by Surface Contacts. S. P. T. and Miles Walker

      (Brit. Assoc., Section G.).
Rotatory Converters (Jour. Inst. Elec. Engin.).
364 APPENDIX

                                                    1899  of Electrical  Engineers

Presidential Address to the Institution
      (Jour. Inst. Elec. Engin.).

                                                           1900

Intorno alle Immagini Magnetiche (Atti dell' Asaoc. Elettro-
       technica 1 tali ana}.

Ueber Magnetische BUder (Physikalische Zfilschrift).

Report on Electromagnetic Mechanisms (Rapports et Prods

      verbaux, Elec. Congress, Paris).
On Obliquely-crossed Cylindrical Lenses (Phil. Mag.).

                                                           1901

Faraday und die Englische Schule der Elektriker (Vortrag in dem
      Urania Theater, Berlin).

Presidential Address before the Physical Society of London.
Some Experiments on the Zonal Aberration of Lenses (Archives

       Nierlandaises des Sciences exactea et noturelks).

                                                           1902

Opto-technics (Jour. Soc. of Arts).
Second Presidential Address to the Physical Society of London.
Illustrative Teaching. Presidential Address to Friends' Guild

       of Teachers.
Professor Alfred Marie Cornu (Obit. Notice, Proc. Roy. Soc.).
Magnetism in Growth. The eighth Boyle Lecture (Oxford Univ.

     Jun. Science Club).

Magnetism in Transitu. Discourse (Royal Institution).

                                                    1903 -

The Optical and Physical Properties of Mica (Optical Soc.).
Zonal Aberration and its Consequences (Brit. Jour. Photographic

       Almanac).
The Fourth Traill Taylor Memorial Lecture.
The Dynamo-Electric Machine. Wilde v. Thompson (Electrician)
William Gilbert and Terrestrial Magnetism (Jour. Roy. Geog.

        -Soc.).

                                                    1904

Note on a Rapid Approximate Method of Harmonic Analysis
       (Proc. Physical Soc.).

Address before the City of Bradford Technical College.
                        APPENDIX                            365

                                                           1905

On the Nicol Prism and its Modern Varieties [with a biblio
       graphy] (Proc. Optical, Convention).

The Early Literature of Optics. Presidential Address (Optical

        Soc.).
Harmonic Analysis reduced to Simplicity (Electrician).

Translation of La Qusestio de Aqua et Terra di Dante.

                                                           1906

Electric Production of Nitrates from the Atmosphere. Discourse
      (Royal Institution).

High-speed Electric Machinery with Special Reference to Steam
      Turbines. Howard Lectures (Jour. Soc. of Arts).

Petrus Peregrinus de Maricourt and his Epistola de Magneto
      (Proc. Brit. Academy).

                                                           1907

Address as President of Section G [Engineering] (Brit. Assoc.).
Presidential Address to the South-Eastern Union of Scientific

       Societies [(Trans, of the South-Eastern Union of Scientific
        Societies).

                                                           1908

The Life and Work of Lord Kelvin. The First Kelvin Lecture
       (Jour, of the Inst. of Elec. Engin.).

                                                           1909

On the Self-demagnetising Factor of Bar Magnets. S. P. T.
      and E. W. Moss (Proc. Physical. Soc.).

Presidential Address Illuminating Engineering Society.

                                                           1910

On Hysteresis Loops and Lissajous Figures (Proc. Physical Soc.).
On Physiological Effects of an Alternating Magnetic Field

      (Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. B.).

                                                          1911

A New Method of Approximate Harmonic Analysis by Selected

       Ordinates (Proc. Physical Soc.).

Physiological Effects   of an   1912        Magnetic Field  (Jour.
       Roentgen Soc.).
                               Alternating
366 APPENDIX

A New Method of Harmonic Analysis (Archiv for Matematik,
       Upsala).

The Magnetism of Permanent Magnets. Glasgow Lecture
       (Inst. Elec. Engineers).

Presidential Address to Second Optical Convention (Proc. Op
       tical Convention).

The Trend of Geometrical Optics (Proc. Optical Convention).
Design and Construction of Large Polariscopes, S. P. T. and

      E. G. Coker (Proc. Optical Convention).
French Translation of the Kelvin Lecture (International Elec-

       trotech. Commission).

               1913

The Aims and Work of the International Electrotechnical Com

      mission (Jour. Inst. Elec. Engin.).
Le But et L'CEuvre de La Commission Electrotechnique Inter

      nationale (La Lumiere Eleclrique).
Permanent Magnets. Terrestrial Magnetism (Jour. Inst. Eke.

       Engin.).

On the Origin and Development of the Compass Card, Rosa
       Ventorum (International Congress of Historical Studies,

London).
The Rose of the Winds (Proc. Brit. Academy).
                                                                 :

Some Considerations on the Brightness of Lights (Illuminating

       Engineer).
The Secret of the Permanent Magnet. Friday Discourse (Royal

Institution).

                                                           1914  Vision.

Dispersion (Institute of Ophthalmic Opticians).
Note on Mr. Mallock's Observations on Intermittent

       (Proc. Roy. Soc.).

                                                          1915

On the Criterion of Steel suitable for Permanent Magnets (Proc.
       Physical Soc.).

               1916

Science and Industry (The Beama Journal).      Friday Discourse
Corona and other Forms of Electric Discharge.

      (Royal Institution).
                                            INDEX

Abbe, Professor Dr., 254, 258, 260                         Becquerel rays, 186, 191
Abel, Sir Frederick, 130                                   Bennett, Alfred W., 19, 24
                                                           --Bervliins,itslecttou,re22in4,  Urania  Theatre,
Adams, Professor, of Cambridge,                                                               345             1 70

    19, 25, 43, 44                                         Bertelli, Padre, his version of
Aggs, Sylvia M. (Thompson), 338,                              Petrus Peregrinus, 244
   349, 353                                                Bibliographical Society, 239, 242 .
Aggs, William Hanbury, 338                                 Binaural audition, 39, 46, 60, 108, 109
Aire, the sources of the river, 297                        Boer War, 214
Allen, William, 3                                                   Thompson's opinions on, 179
Alpine Club, exhibitions at, 305,                          Boistel, Emil, 93, 189, 219

    310                                                    Bonney, Canon, 327
                                                           Bootham School, 4, 7, 12, 17, 19,
Alverstone, Richard Webster, Lord,

    251                                                        310, 319

Apprenticeship schools in France,                          J.Botany, 6, 8, 216, 296, 298, 301, 316

    50                                                     Bottomley, Dr. T., 285
                                                           Boyle Lecture, Oxford, 84
Arbitration, 331                                 E.,       Boyle, Robert, 243
Ardennes, visit to the, 308                                Bramwell, Sir Frederick, 76, 78,
Armstrong, Professor Henry

    127, 130, 137                                              231

Arnold, Matthew, views on his                              Breslau, visit to University of, 340
                                                           Bright, John, 3, 11, 20, 209
   poetry, 313, 317                                        Bristol, Friends' Meeting, 34, 320
Associazione elettrotecnica italiana,                      Bristol Naturalists' Society, 46, 112,

205, 212, 213, 218, 285

--Astsrotundoymyo, f,  lectures   on,  19,  24,  64
                       8, 19
                                                           299
                                                           Bristol University College, 27, 31,
Athenaeum Club, election to, 181,

240                                                            85, 124, 155

Auerbach, Professor, 258, 260                              Bristol University, Honorary De
Austen, Sir Wm. Roberts, 214
Avebury, Lord, 177, 178                                       gree, 343
Ayrton, Mrs. Hertha, 132, 206, 214,                        British Academy, 244, 245
                                                           British Association meetings :
    343
                                                              1876, Glasgow, 30, 278; 1877,
Ayrton, Professor Willam E., 53,                              Plymouth, 39 ; 1878, Dublin,
                                                              46; 1880, Swansea, 58; 1881,
94, 121, 127, 130, 153, 204, 205,                             York, 90; 1884, Montreal, 116,
                                                              119; 1889, Newcastle, 254;
214, 256, 278

Bachelor's Papers, 16, 319                       43,           1891, Cardiff, 77, 161 ; 1894,
Ball, Wilfred, 165, 305                                       Oxford, 163 ff. ; 1895, Ispwich,
Barlow, Sir Thomas, 182, 272                                  84; 1896, Liverpool, 192 ; 1897,
Barrett, Professor Sir William,                               Toronto, 196, 309 ; 1900, Brad
                                                              ford, 72, 73; 1906, York, 195,
   44, 54, 110, 129, 154, 331, 341                            273; 1907, Leicester, 219, 285
Bayes, Gilbert, R.A., 135                                  British Science Guild, 272
Beale, Miss Dorothea, 57                                   Brockbank, Ellwood, 58, 164, 304,
Beck,  Conrad,
Beck,  R. and          J.2,66254                               322
Becquerel, Henri, 184, 186, 191,
                                                           Brockbank, Marie Thompson, 58,

283                                                        164, 348, 350

                                                      367
368 INDEX

Brown, Alfred Kemp, 12, 28                     Dudley Gallery Exhibition, 304
Brown, Charles, of Baden, 165, 218             Dyer, Sir W. T. Thistleton, 177, 181
Browne, Sir James Crichton, 44, 2 14           Dynamo Electric Machinery, 85, 92
Browning, Kobert, views on his
                                                   95, 96, 100, 119, 165, 205, 223
    poetry, 313, 320
Brunswick, Monsieur, 222                       Edison, Thomas Alva, 68, 111, 115
Bryce, James, Lord, 251
Budde, Dr., 222, 224, 225, 344                     121, 123, 222
Bunsen, Professor, 29                          Education, views on, 40, 47 fit., 57,
                                                  58, 59, 69, 133, 175, 176,
Calculus made Easy, 107, 138                   Elder of Westminster                                        264, 270
Cambridge, visits to, 234, 327                                                                             Friends'
                                                  Meeting, 321
Campbell Swinton, A. A., 199                   Electric light, first introduction of
Cantor Lectures, 85, 92, 96
Central Electric Generating Sta                    63, 64, 76
tions, 72
                                               --ElePcotrwicerLiBgihlltsin, g73Act, '76
                                               Electric Traction by Surface Con
Chicago Exhibition, juror at, 120                  tacts, 103
Christmas Lectures, Bristol, 37, 41
                                               Electrical Congress, Chicago, 118
        Bxiyal Institution, 192, 339
City Guilds of London, 50, 53                  --  121          Philadelphia,                              120
City Guilds Institute, 127, 128,
                                                   Congress,
                                               ----Elelfceirtcsrttiucrireteyss,eaaetrscsCharyyosontan, l,
142                                                                                                         8
Clark, James Edmund, 8, 9
Clark, Latimer, 221, 228, 235, 246                                                                         22                 67
Coales, Dr. Dennis, 136, 148                                                                                 Palace,
Coker, Professor E. G., 140, 142,
                                               Electromagnet, The, 85, 96
                                               Electrotechnical Commission, 344
                                               Elementary Lessons on Electricity
270                                               and Magnetism, 86, 88, 161
                      Gilbert Centenary,       Essex Field Club, 231, 300
C--olcOhyesstteerr,  Feast, 234, 281      232

Colombo, Commendatore G 205                    Faraday, Life of, 166, 260, 283, 286
   211,213,217                                 Faraday, Michael, 44, 165, 170
Comets, lecture on, 24
Como Exhibition, 205, 212                      Ferraris, Professor Galileo, 121, 207
Congres de Paris, 1877, 108                    Ferrier, Professor, 196
                                               ----FinTOsebldcuhrnSyitcuMadleemnCtsoo'rllieaAglsesM,oac1gia2at7zioifnnfe.,,,
Conscription, 354                                                                                                              143
                                                                                                                              141
Conservation of Electricity, 90                                                                                               175
Cooke, Conrad W., 32, 41, 168. 227,            FFlietzmginegra, ldP,roPfreosfesossrorJ.GA. .F, .,11889,,
                                                                                                                              154
    230, 245, 352                                                                                                             137,
Cornu, Alfred Marie, 187, 268
Crompton, Colonel, 93, 208, 224                    205, 273
Crookes, Sir William, 23, 40, 97, 153,
157, 160, 166, 167, 170, 183, 191,             Flemwell, George, 305, 306, 307
192, 196, 236, 252, 262, 284, 289
308, 331, 332, 339                             Ford, John, 7, 11, 14,318
                                               Foster, Professor George Carey, 25,
                                                  43, 45, 88, 135, 178, 204, 208, 256
Curie, Madame, 195, 3"41
Curie, Pierre, 195, 219                        Flounders Institute, 10, II
                                               Frankfort, visits to, 112, 161, 205,

Dolby, Professor William Ernest,               --  292          Exhibition,                                161, 205,

     141                                            Electrical

Dante, 218, 315                                    292
Darwin, Sir Francis, 300
                                               Frankland, Sir Edward, 17, 24, 26
Darwin, Sir George H., 293                         27, 87, 319
Dewar, Professor Sir James, 167,               Freedom of City of London con

Dic2k0s2o, n3,3J9. D. Hamilton, 286-8, 291        ferred, 262
                                               Friends' Portfolio Society, 20, 243,
Dictionary of National Biography,
    The, 295                                       310, 313

Diploma di Benemerenza, Como,213               Fry, Albert, 128, 152
Duddell, William, 198, 220                     Fry, Sir Edward, 20,34, 27
                                               Fry, Francis Junes, 33, 37, 152
                                               Fry, Lewis, M.P., 34, 35, 56, 152
                                               Fry, Richard, 17
                                                INDEX                                 369

Garnett, Dr. William, 125, 182, 272             Howell, Rev. W. C. .229
Oeikie, Sir Archibald, 300, 341                 Huggins, Sir William, 244
Geissler, Dr., of Bonn, 28, 184                 Hughes, Professor David E., 93,

--(Jemcos,llelcitteioranturoef,  of, 242,  243      101, 157, 168,214
                                 303            Hunt, A. Ackland, 232, 234
                                                Huxley, Professor, 21, 51, 53, 319,
G«ology, 297, 301
Gerard, Professor Eric, 222                         331, 332
German optical works, visit to,
                                                Huygens, Christian, optical work
--  257 ff.   Institution        of Electrical     of, 270
    visit of
                                                Hyperphosphoreacence, 186

    Engineers, 215

Gheury, Maurice, 107                            Illuminating Engineering Society,
Gilbert Club, the, 228                             first President of, 274
Gilbert family and arms of, 231, 234                         work for, 274 ff.
Gilbert, William, author of l>e
                                                Institution of Electrical Engineers,
   Magnete, 40, 226 ff.
Gilchrist lectures, 38, 63                          204                      Address to,
                                                               Presidential
Gladstone, John Hall, 20, 21, 38,
   47, 53, 59, 128, 130, 153, 196, 255              213
Glasgow, visit of Institution of
                                                International Congress of Historical
   Electrical Engineers, 220
Glazebrook, Sir Richard T., 263,                --  studies, 245             1881,    1889,
                                                     Electrical Congress,
                                                    1900, at Paris, 66, 221, 222;
   264, 266, 268, 276                               at Philadelphia, 120; 1891 at
Gorick, Charles, 148                                Frankfort, 206, 222 ; 1893,
Gould, Sir Francis Carruthers, 251
Govi, Signor, 221                                   Chicago, 121, 222 ; 1899, Como,
Graham Bell, Professor A., 108,                     205, 211 ; 1904, St. Louis, 222;
                                                    1911, Turin, 222
  J.110, 111. 114, 120, 122                     --  Eleotroteohnical         Commission,

Graham, W., Principal, 873, 321                 --  222, 224, 344, 345
Graham, Robert P. Howgrave, 143,                --  good-will, 351
                                                    Wireless Congress,
    149                                                                      Berlin,  83
                                                Italian Visit of Institution of Elec
Gray, Professor Elisha, 120, 121,

    123                                            trical Engineers, 215
                                                Italy, visits to, 135, 205, 222, 304,
Gray, Robert K.. 215, 217, 232
Grubb, Edward, 34, 322, 355                         345, 347
Guthrie, Professor, 18, 20, 22, 26,

    29, 41, 42, 43, 55

Hampstead Scientific Society, 81,               Janet, Professor Paul, 224
    299                                         Jena, visit to, 258
                                                Johnson, Dr. G. Lindsay, 263
Harmonic analysis, 106                          Jordans, Old Friends' Meeting House,
Harness Libel Case, 70
Harris, Doctor Rendel, 321                          355
Harvey, T. Edmund, 330, 335, 340
Hassall, John, 249, 252                         Jowett, Benjamin, 126, 128
Heidelberg University, studies at,              Junior Institution of Engineers,

    28                                              President of, 102, 160

Hellmann, Gustav, 237                           Kapp, Professor Gisbert, 171, 205,
Helmholtz, Professor von, 121, 221,
                                                    224
    273, 281                                    Kelvin, William Thomson, Lord, 39,
Henderson, James, 24, 51, 56                        45, 61, 65, 71, 119. 137, 186;
Henderson, Jane Smeal, 24, 46, 66,                  199, 201, 202, 214, 220-1-2,

    59, 110                                         228, 262, 278 ff., 290, 291 ; arms
Bering, Professor Carl, 214                         of, 2
Herkomer, Sir Hubert von, 161,                  "   Kelviniana,"  284

     162, 163                                   Kelvin Lecture, the, 220
                                                Kennelly, Professor, 107, 185, 289
Hodgkin, Dr. Thomas, 300, 330                   Kenyon, Sir F. G., 234
Holmes, Straiten, 148                           Keogh, Sir Alfred, 267
Hopkinson, Dr. John, 94, 205, 208,              Kimmins, Dr., 178
                                                Koenig, Dr., 159, 169, 187, 188, 229
     273

        24
370 INDEX

Konigsberg, Honorary Degree of                     Memorial Library, Silvanus P.
   University of, 39
                                                      Thompson, 247
Kohlrausoh, Professor, 171                         Militarism, 209
                                                   Minister, recognised by the Society
Laver, Henry, 228
                                                      of Friends, 323
Lecture subjects, 63, 78                           Monkhouse, Cosmo, 168
Lee, Sir Sidney, 206                               Monodies, 337
--LibSrailvryan,  Royal Society, 341               Moore, Edwin, 8, 12
                  un P. Thompson's, 227,  235,     Mordey, William M., 92, 213, 217
                                                   Morgan, Dr. G. T., 353
--  243 ft., 247       of   London,  180           Morland, 1, 153,247,310
    University                                     Moss, Ernest W., 105, 365
Light Visible and Invisible, 192,                  Mottelay, Dr. P. Fleury, 230, 238,

    193, 255, 257, 273                                 246
Lippmaim, Professor G., of Sor-                    Moulton, Fletcher, Lord Justice, 98,

    bonne, 90, 106                                      160, 178, 196
L"isLtiettrl,e  Lord,
                 blue  177, 197      315           Murray, Sir James, 98, 242, 243
                       note-books,"                Music, love of, 13, 310 ff.
Lockyer, Sir Norman, 18, 85                        Myths of the Magnet, The, 231
                            Alfred,
Lodge,          Professor            140      71,  Nature, contributions to, 85, 110
Lodge,          Sir Oliver  J., 25,  42, 45,       Neesen, Professor, 171
                                                   Newcastle College of Science, ex-
    77, 81, 82, 84, 86, 88, 95, 120, 124,
    136, 140, 154, 163, 177, 199, 210,                 aminership in, 60
    292, 294, 329, 330, 331, 332, 335,             New English Dictionary, 99, 242
                                                   New Telephone Company, 116, 118
   339, 343                                        Nicol,' William, biography of, 268
London Institution, lectures at, 78
London Society for the Study of                    Not Impossible Religion, A, 326, 330

   Religion, the, 330
London University, election to

   Senate of, 178                                  Ocean Telephony, 118, 121
        ezaminership in, 153                       "Odd Volumes, Sette of," 230, 233,
         reform of, 1 72 ff .                         243, 245, 250, 251, 252
        Royal Commission, 175                      Optical Convention, 1905, 266

Luminescence, lecture on, at Oxford,

    190, 202                                       --       1912,  269         of, 263
                                                       Society,    foundation
Lummer, Professor Otto, 171, 194,
                                                       President of, 266
    257, 340
                                                   Opto- technics, 264
McMillan, W. G., 211                               O'Reilly, M. F. (Brother Pota-
Magick Mirrour of Japan, The, 256
--Magrenseetiasrmch, eslecotnu,re5s4 on, 84           mian), 238, 246, 286
Magnus, Sir Philip, 128
Manchester Conference (Friends'),                  Pacinotti, Professor Antonio, 94,

    321, 323                                           223

Manufacture of light, lecture on,                  Page, Dr., Ambassador, U.S.A., 251
    195, 273                                       Palmer, Sir Walter, 38, 117
                                                   --ParvisisiEt xohfibInitsiotintu, ti2o6n1 of Electrical
Marconi, Guglielmo, 81 S.
Marriage of Silvanus Phillips                          Engineers, 214

    Thompson, 59                                   Percival, Dr. John (Bishop of
Marshall, Professor Alfred, 45, 61,
                                                       Hereford), 27r 35, 125, 128, 152
     128                                           Peregrinus, Petrus, 243, 245, 288
                                                   Permanent Magnets, 105, 220
Mascart, Professor E., 121, 169, 187,              Perrin, Monsieur, 184, 188
                                                   Perry, Professor John, 53, 92, 127,
     188, 222
Mathematics, 105-6-7, 138                              130, 131, 141, 153, 160, 214, 215,

Maxwell, Professor Clerk, 64, 68,                      293

     155                                           Phillips, Frances, 3
Meldola, Professor Raphael, 18, 130,               Phillips, Richard, 3, 166, 169
                                                   Phillips, William, 3
    182, 229, 297, 300, 350, 351, 352              Phonautograph, 109
Memorial Lecture, Silvanus P.                      Photometry, 256, 273, 276

    Thompson, 100, 200
                                                   INDEX                                          371

Photophone, 110                                           Royal Society, the, 62, 78, 91, 101,
Physical Society of London, the,                              102, 103, 195, 199, 256, 268, 279,

   20, 23, 25, 26, 38, 41, 42, 105,                           340,341, 342
    106, 111, 255,283                                                  elected Fellow of, 160
Plant<5, Gaston, 65, 66                                            Soirees, exhibits at,
Plateau's Films, research on, 41                          --  Water Colour Society,         79   Club,
Poetry, 251, 313, 317, 337
                                                                                            Art

                                                              305                           . . ...
                                                          Riicker, Professor Sir Arthur, 87,
Poggi, Signor, 216
           PErleocfetrsiscorCuJ.rreHn.t,s,11906,,
Polyphase                                           1 65      180, 182
Poynting,                                          154,
                                                          Ruskin, John, letters from, 47, 49
                                                          Russell, Dr. Alexander, 104, 100,
    330
                                                              118, 213
Preece, Sir William Henry, 41, 67,
                                                          Rutherford, Sir Ernest, 100, 200
    80, 121, 157, 205, 273, 293
                                                          Safety lamp, miner's, 77, 93, 130
Presidency of Institution of Elec                         Saunders, Thomas Bailey, 181, 239,
   trical Engineers, 207
                                                             240, 290, 332, 344
Presidential Address to Engineering                       Schott, Dr., of Jena, 254, 259
                                                          Schuster, Sir Arthur, 160
Section, 219                                              Science, importance of in industry,

Pseudophone, 109
Psychical research, 331

Quakers, persecution of the, 4                                54        Taylor,  Dr., 108
Quaritch, Bernard, 235, 244                                             of Odd   Volumes,"
Quest for Truth, The, 327, 328                            "SeSdelettye                      230,  233,
Quincke, Professor Geheimrath von,
                                                             245, 250, 251, 252
    30, 113                                               Settle, visits to, 6, 59, 71, 296 ff.
                                                          Short, Peter, printer, 239, 242
--Radtihoemoeryterosf,,  discourse  on, 26
                         281, 282
                                                          Siemens, Alexander, 93, 222
Rainbows, lecture on, 46                                  Slaby, Professor, of Charlotten-
Ramsay, Professor Sir William,
                                                             burg, 81
56, 01, 62, 124, 129, 153, 178, 188,                      Sleeman, Rev. Philip, 152, 158
                                                          Social Science Congress, Chelten
   278, 323, 353
Rasi, Signor P., 224                                         ham, 48
Rayleigh, Lord,. 108, 111, 276, 281                                    Nottingham, 59

Beis, Life of Philipp, 1 13. 114                          Societ4 Franeaise de Physique, 186,
Reis, Phillipp, 111, 114, 229
Religion and Science by Seven Men                             187
   of Science, 335
Righi, Professor Augusto, 212, 268,                       Society of Arts medal, 80
                                                                   lectures to the, 51, 64, 85, 92,

    345                                                       176, 256, 264
                                                          Solan, Lieutenant Marquis Luigi,

Riseley, George, 311                                          82
Rocky Mountains, sketches of, 309
Rontgen Society, foundation of, 195                       Sound, Christmas lectures on, 339
                                                          South- Eastern Union of Scientific
                                                              Societies, President of, 300, 333
         Presidential Address to, 196,

201                                                       Spectacle Makers' Company, 70,
                                                             262, 269, 271
Rontgen, Professor, 184, 196
                                                          Spencer, Herbert, 300, 333, 345
HOHU Ventorum, 245                                        Spottiswoode, Dr. William, 46, 91,
Roscoe, Sir Henry, 166, 168, 178,

   214                                                        159

Rosebery, Lord, 175                                       Standard of Illumination, 273
                                                          Stephan, Dr. von, 206
Rotatory Converters, 104, 204                             Stokes, Professor Sir G. G., 91, 186,
Rowley, Professor, 34, 152
Royal Astronomical Society, 19                                191, 192, 202
Royal Institution, first visits to the,                   Storage of Electricity, 64
    19,21, 94, 156
                                                          Stirling, Professor, 44
         lectures at the, 84, 85, 105,                    Strobio circles, 44
    158, 159, 163, 165, 189, 192, 243,                    Sturgeon, William, 102, 229
    255, 276, 312, 339, 353                               Swan, Sir Joseph Wilson, 66, 68, 87,

--      membership of, 155                                    169, 205, 207, 292
    School of Mines, 1 7                                  Swarthmore Lecture, the, 327
372 INDEX

Swiss Excursion of Institution of       Tyndall, Professor John, 21, 41. 94,
   Electrical Engineers, 210               157,194,319

Switzerland, visits to, 14, 38, 164,    University Colleges, English, 1 56, 330
    287, 299, 303, 305, 346             University of Heidelberg, student

Tut ham, family arms of, 4, 6           --  at,  28             Honorary Degree
Tatham, John, 4                              of  Konigsberg,
Tathairi, Mamnaduka, 4
Technical College, Finsbury, 127 fl     --  of,  39         8,    17,    19,  45,  153,
                                             of
                                                 London,

Telephone patents, 114, 116, 118        --  162,  172 ff.,  272   great,      lecture  to
                                            the   making    of a
                                                        Arts, 176
Telephone research on, 108ff            --  Society of  visit to, 181
Temperance, work for, 13                    of Paris,
Tennyson, Alfred, views on his
                                        Varley, Samuel Alfred, 229, 292
   poetry, 313, 314, 320                Volta, centenary of, 205, 215, 231
Tercentenary of Queen Elizabeth,        Volta, Professor Alessandro, 216
                                        Volta, tomb of 212, 216, 217
    232
                                        Wagner, Richard, music of, 113,
Thompson, Arms of, 2, 6
                                            311, 312
J.Thompson, Bridget, 4, 5, 14, 38, 304
Thompson,  Dorothea, 165, 225,          Walker, Professor Miles, 91, 103,
    297, 299, 312, 327, 328, 352            104, 136, 148, 165, 185, 363
Thompson, Helen G., 91, 296, 305,
312, 338, 347, 349, 352                 Walmsley, Dr. R. Mullineux, 136,

Thompson, Isaac C., 16, 64, 120, 192       266, 267
                                        Walton, E. A., R.S.A., 289
Thompson, A. Irene (Mrs. T. E.          Watson, Dr. Robert Spence, 321
   Harvey), 300, 312, 340
                                        Watson, William, quotation from,
Thompson, Dr. John Tatham, 36,
    96, 275, 338                            219
Thompson, Rachel Ford, 164, 296,        Weaver, W. D., 238
                                        Weimar, visit to, 257
    305
                                        West, Joseph Walter, R. W. 8., 13,
Thompson, Silvanus, of York, 3, 5,
                                            163, 310
    38, 59                              Westminster Friends' Meeting, 19,

Thompson, Sylvia M., 214, 312, 338          23, 38, 179, 320, 321, 323, 334,
Thompson, Thomas, of Liverpool, 3           354, 355
Thompson, William Phillips, 16
Thomson, Dr. Elihu, 121, 123, 170,      Wheatley, H. B., 229
193, 222, 223, 224                      White, Sir William, 214, 326
J.Thomson, James, 280                   Wilde, Dr. Henry, 97
                           J., 192
Thomson, Professor Sir                   Wilde v. Thompson, 97
Thomson, Sir William. See Kelvin.       Wilson, Lady, 166, 169
Tidal Power, use of, 65                 Wimshurst, James, 78, 161
Tilden, Sir William, 35, 152            Winkworth, Catherine, 33, 34
Todhunter, Dr. John, 233, 252           Wireless telegraphy, 80 ff .
Trades schools, 51                      Women's suffrage, 342
Traill-Taylor Memorial Lecture, 268
Trotter, A. P., 221, 256                X-rays, 184, 185, 196, 200
Turin Exhibition, 1911, 222
Tyndall Lectures, 84, 243               Zeiss, Carl, 258

           tPrinttd in Ortat .Britain by Saull, Watim       Firvy, LJ.,

                           London and
ffiffi

