A long life's work, an autobiography by Sir Archibald Geikie ...
Geikie, Archibald, Sir, 1835-1924.
London, Macmillan and co., limited, 1924.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015031082442
                               Public Domain, Google-digitized
                               http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                               We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                               meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                               free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                               in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                               heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                               of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                               copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                               of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                               need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                               address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                               produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                               on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                               the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                               or used commercially. The images are provided for
                               educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.

888s

GLE
 2.2.
.QrZ
  A3

J
A LONG LIFE'S WORK
   AN AUTOBIOGMfHY


A LONG LIFE'S WORK
   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY


A LONG LIFE'S    WORK
   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY
                      »*l

    MACMILLAN AND       CO., Limited
  LONDON • BOMBAY • CALCUTTA  • MADRAS
               MELBOURNE
     THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
      NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO
        DALLAS • SAN FRANCISCO
THE MACMILLAN      CO. OF CANADA, Ltd.
                TORONTO


kl I >.
        -JnyuA&ttiiJc,

LONG LIFE'S WORK
        Jin         Autobiography
                                UY
SIR ARCHIBALD GE1K1E, O.M,
                                                            K.C.B.
                                tLD.     St. And.,   Glasg., Ab«,        , EoiK. ,
            Camb., Dob.-     ;
                      LeipzIg,    Upsala,    Prague
              Ph.D.
  »T*.„CE.\.r  l/.NWITVT  D«   FRM.CI; OFFICII. Dl    U UO.O*    l/HOKHEU.
                   MUM,  «umcH, VIEMHA,      Stockholm              I*
 ™. •<««. ACAIV
                             EY, UNITED   KINGDOM
                          ,^,           nMM-T.     -OVAL «oci«tv.   ly*.-).5
                                 I9o6 ;
     MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
      ST. MARTINS STREET, LONDON
                                 1924


 A LONG LIFE'S WORK
                        *An ^Autobiography
                                               BY
          SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE, O.M., K.C.B.
D.C.L. Oxon.     ;  Sc.D. Camb., Dubl. ; LL.D. St. And., Glasg., Abbrd., Edin.               ;
                            Ph.D. Leipzig, Upsala, Prague
      ASSOCIS ETRANGEK    DE L*INSTITUT DE FRANCE ', OFFICIER DE LA LEGION      d'hONNEUR
              FOR. MEMB.  R. ACCAD. L1NCEI,  ROME;   NAT.  ACAD. SCI., WASHINGTON
             COR. MEMB.  ACAD. BERLIN,  MUNICH,  VIENNA,   STOCKHOLM,   CHRISTIANIA
FORMERLY   PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY, UNIVERSITY    OF EDINBURGH ; THEREAFTER DIRECTOR' GENERAL,
                                GEOL. SURVEY,  UNITED   KINGDOM
      PRESIDENT,   GEOLOGICAL  SOCIETY, 1890, 1906 ; PRESIDENT,  ROYAL SOCIETY,    1908-1913
                 MACMILLAN AND                        CO.,      LIMITED
                 ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON
                                            1924

        COPYRIGHT
PRINTED  IN GREAT BRITAIN

1-3.0-31
                               CONTENTS
                                 CHAPTER I
                                   1835-1850
                                                                    PiOE
   Boyhood and School-Life                                             1
            Parentage.   Earliest recollections.  Visit of Queen
        Victoria to Scotland in 1842. The Disruption of the Kirk
        of Scotland.     A school-boy's debut. First visit to the
        Highlands.     The High School of Edinburgh. Thomas
        Babington Macaulay and Adam Black. Helen Faucit
        and the Theatre Royal. Natural History occupations.
        How a geologist began.          Robert Chambers.     Hugh
        Miller's influence.    First visit to London. " Burning
        the water."
                                CHAPTER       II
                                   1850-1855
   A Wrong Start. How Things were Righted
           A wrong start. A lawyer's office. The Isle of Arran
        and a boy's description     of its geology.  Acquaintance
       with Hugh Miller formed. Sir William Logan.             Dr.
        George Wilson as a benefactor.        James David Forbes.
        Henry Clifton Sorby. Scarlet fever ends a mercantile
       career. Science and literary studies. The Geological
        Survey first heard of. First geological excursions to the
                         "
        Isle of Skye.      The Boy of the Stones."     Hugh Miller
       and the Royal Physical Society.       Edward Forbes comes
       to Edinburgh. Classical studies at Edinburgh Univer
       sity.    James Pillans and John Stuart Blackie.          Sir
       William Hamilton. Illness intervenes. An end is put
       to the University career. A. C. Ramsay and Sir R. I.
       Murchison.      Skye revisited.   Appointment to the Geo
       logical Survey.

vi                         CONTENTS
                            CHAPTER        III
                               1855-1860
                                                                   PAGE
First Years in the Geological Survey                                 44
       The work of the Geological Survey. Origin of Oil-shale
    Industry in Scotland.    Accoutrement of a member of the
    Survey.    Popular guesses as to his employment.        Work
    begins in East Lothian. The
                                      " Browns of Haddington."
    Literary and other studies continued.       First year on the
    Survey probationary.     Geology of Skye resumed. Find
    of fossils in the Pentland Hills.      Higher aspects of the
    work of the Survey. Cowper's satire on men of science.
    Hugh Miller at his home. His death. Converse with
    Pillans and Leonard Horner. Great interest of the hitherto
    unknown history of volcanic action in the Lothians. Life
    in West Lothian villages. Paper on the Geology of Strath,
    Skye. The Darlings of Priestlaw. British Association in
    Aberdeen.     Balmoral visited.     E. W. Cooke's sketch
    book.    Publication of Darwin's Origin of Species. Win
    ter quarters in London.    Christmas at Cambridge.      Adam
    Sedgwick.     Death of Prof. George Wilson. His un
    finished Life of Edward Forbes.        Robert A. C. Godwin
    Austen.    The ancient volcanoes of Fife. The gypsies at
    headquarters.    Murchison's work in the Highlands and
    his choice of an assistant.    Great review by Queen Vic
    toria at Edinburgh. Islay and Jura visited.              Glen
    Quoich and its guests. Loch Duich and Murchison's
    ancestors.   Glen Torridon and result of a Sunday spent
    among its mountains.     The Black Mount. The Duke of
    Athol and Glen Tilt. Resumption of field-work in Fife.
                            CHAPTER IV
                              .......86
                              1 860- 1 867
                   --
Lecturing    at the School of Mines. First Journeys
    Abroad.     Directorate of Geological Survey of
    Scotland
       Christmas at Cambridge.       Temporary replacement of
    A. C. Ramsay at the School of Mmes. First excursions
    abroad for geological study.    G. P. Scrope and Auvergne.
    Tertiary volcanoes of Ireland and Scotland.       Offer of the
    post of Geologist to the Maharajah of Cashmere. The
    study of the Drift.   Instructions to trace the Drift on the
    Survey Maps.      An examination of the Drift deposits on
    the coast between Berwick-on-Tweed         and the mouth of
    the Humber. The Survey of the West of Scotland begun
    in Ayrshire. Dalquharran and Kennedy of Dunure.
    Ailsa Craig. My Scenery of Scotland published, 1865.

                             CONTENTS                                 vii
    Excursion to Arctic Norway in pursuance of the study of
    the Drift.    Identity of the evidence in Norway and in
    Scotland.    Latin in Arctic Norway. Cathcart of Auchen-
    drane.    Separation of the Geological Survey of Scotland
    under its own Director.
                             CHAPTER V
                                i 867-1 87 i
Start of the Geological Survey of Scotland                   -      - 115
       Staff of the Geological Survey of Scotland.       Develop
    ment of the petrographical work of the Survey.          British
    Association    at Dundee in 1867.          Excursion to St.
    Andrews.     Jacobite relics at Fingask. Ferdinand Zirkel
    in Scotland.     A brief excursion into R hind and and the
    Swiss glacier world.       Letter from Ami Bou6. The
    dining club of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Visit
    to Bou6 in Vienna.        Edouard Suess and the Austrian
    Geologists.    Salzburg    and Mozart.      Meeting    of the
    German naturalists and physicians at Innspruck. Rapid
    reception of Darwin's views in Austria. Ramsay Lodge,
    Edinburgh.       Interview with Thomas Carlyle.            Visit
    to the Lipari Isles.    Rome and the Oecumenical Council.
    Mrs. Somerville in Naples.         Lipari reached but work
    prevented by a severe attack of fever. After six weeks
    spent mostly in bed the invalid returns to England.
    Letter from Bou6 on the war. Foundation of the Chair
    of Geology in the University of Edinburgh.       Visit to Fast
    Castle and its cliffs. The Red Lions. Marriage and
    wedding tour.      A French home. The Germans in France.
    Death of Murchison.
                    ---------
                             CHAPTER VI
                                1871-1882
Creation of a Chair of Geology in the University of
    Edinburgh                                                         150
       Opening    of   Geological   Department    in Edinburgh
    University. Letter from Bou6. " Excursions from Edin
    burgh for practical teaching.          The Long Excursion."
    University training for women. Social life in Edinburgh.
    Lord and Lady Lister. Robert Louis Stevenson. Mrs.
    Lushington.     Gardening at Ramsay Lodge. Lectures to a

viii                             CONTENTS
        Lunatic Asylum, and to        a Deaf and Dumb Institution.
        Success   of the Science Primers.        Publication of Life of
                        " Text-book of                "
       Murchison.                          Geology       projected.    The
       Long Excursion from Dal whinnie. Sir William Herdman's
       benefactions to geology. The Spar-caves of the North
       Bridge, Edinburgh. Studies among tombstones.
                                               "
                                                                    A holi
       day in Italy in 1873. A notable            coincidence."      Land
       scape sketching.       How Ramsay Lodge was left. North
       America visited.       A forest on fire. Fissure eruptions of
       lava.    Great Salt Lake.      The Catskill Mountains.          Life
       in Boston.      Results of the American visit.          Last letter
       from Ami Boue.          His autobiographical memoir. Cape
       Wrath lighthouse.        Last official visit of A. C. Ramsay.
       His resignation and Earl Spencer's letter appointing his
       successor.     Complimentary       letters.    Last lectures at
       Edinburgh.
                              --------
                                 CHAPTER VII
                                    1882-1891
First Years of the Director-Generalship                     of the Geo
      logical Survey                                                        203
          Duties of the Director-General.          Visits to the officers
      in the field. Earthquake at Comrie.                Literary work.
     The Royal Institution. Tercentenary                  of Edinburgh
      University. Mr. Freeman, historian of the Norman
     Conquest, and his friends.         Canon Ainger.        Removal to
      Harrow on the Hill. Ferdinand Zirkel in Cornwall.
     Revision of Irish maps. An Irish Scot. The Tap o'
     Noth. Re-examination of structure of north-west High
     lands.      Renewal of the study of the volcanic areas of the
     West Highlands.         A month of fine weather in the Inner
     Hebrides.       Third International Geological             Congress,
     1885.      Zirkel and the Rhine. Sir Joseph Prestwich's
     retirement.       Fossil tree on top of Slieve League. Im
     portant re-arrangement in the Geological Survey.              Publi
     cation of Memoir on the Tertiary volcanic areas.               Inter
     national Geological Congress at London, 1888. G. K.
                                        " fossils " in the Highland
     Gilbert. Duke of Argyll's
     schists. Earth-movement           in the south of England.
     Professor Huxley. Difficulties in the mapping of the
     rocks in the north and west of Ireland.               Isle of Iona.
     Visit to fossiliferous schists and other rocks with Hans
     Reusch in Norway. Foreign Secretaryship of the Royal
     Society.      Presidency of the Geological Society.          A car
    accident in the west of Ireland.            Sir William Thomson
    and the Chair of the Royal Society.                   The Duke of
                           " discoveries."     The Olenellus zone in
    Argyll's further
    the north-west Highlands.          Revision of the South Wales
    coalfield maps.

                           CONTENTS                                   ix
                           CHAPTER VIII
                               1892-1896
                                                                    PACI
Miscellaneous Duties of the Director-General                -     - 242
       Anniversary of Geological Society, unusual incident.
    B. N. Peach and John Home. Miss Yule's loyalty to the
    memory of Murchison.        Her purchase of his birthplace
    and generous bequest.          Scientific friends in Paris ;
     Pasteur, Daubree, and others.      Incident at the Academy
    of Sciences. Royal Commission on London Water-supply.
    Departmental Committee on Ordnance Survey maps.             A
    Governor of Harrow School.          Tercentenary of Trinity
    College, Dublin.    President of the British Association at
    Edinburgh. Marquis of Salisbury as President elect.
    Annual Reports of Progress of Geological Survey. Mr.
    Gladstone on castor oil.      How an annual cruise among
    the Western Isles began. Alfred Newton.         International
    Geological Congress, Zurich, 1894. A night on the top of
    Ben Nevis.    The Literary Society. Bird life at St. Kilda.
    The Faroe Islands contrasted with our Western Isles.
    Celebration of the Centenary of the Institut de France.
    Chantilly and the Due d'Aumale.         Lord Kelvin's Jubilee.
    A. H. Green. Invitation to lecture at the Johns Hopkins
    University, Baltimore.
                                                 ....
                            CHAPTER IX
                                   1897
The " Wanderjahr " of a Geologist                                   282
       This year exceptional for the amount of its foreign
    travel.   Publication of The Ancient Volcanoes of Great
    Britain." A present from the French Government.
    The Cross of the Legion d'Honneur. " The Founders of
              " chosen as the
    Geology                     theme of my lectures at Balti
    more. The
                  " darkies."                                  Mr.
                                 James Joseph Sylvester.
    Dodge's guests. Mr. Whitelaw Reid. Professor H. F.
    Osborne.
                                      "
                O. C. Marsh and his wigwam." The Seventh
    International Geological Congress in Russia.        Interview
    with Czar and Czarina. Oranienbaum and Duke George
    of Mecklenburg.     Excursion to Moscow and down the
    Volga for 1,100 miles. Reception at Saratow.             From
    Tsaritzin across the steppes to Vladikavkaz. Cross the
    Caucasus by carriage.      Tiflis, Baku. A steamboat on
    the Caspian Sea, and kindling the gas which escapes at the
    surface of the sea. The oil and gas industry. The fire-
    worshippers of Sourakhany.        Steamboat from Batum to
    the Crimea, thence to Odessa, where the excursion came to

                             CONTENTS
                                                                    FACE
    an end.      A small party returned       by Constantinople,
    Smyrna,     Athens, and thence by Brindisi and the St.
    Gothard route to England.
                              CHAPTER X
                                i 898-1 903
Last Years in the Geological Survey              -                  304
       Official opinion of the temporary character of the
    Geological Survey.       Need of revision.     First shadows
    of retirement.     Work still to be completed.      The third
    volume of Hutton's Theory of the Earth published.          The
    Romanes Lecture.         Science in education.    Revision of
    my publications.
                          " The Founders of Geology." Last
    interview with Henry Clifton Sorby. Interchange of
    visits between the British Association at Dover and the
    French Association at Boulogne.         Rome in 1899.   Inter
    national Geological Congress in Paris and short excursion
    to Auvergne.       Yachting cruise round Ireland.          Car
    accident in Ireland.      Departmental Committee on the
    Geological Survey.       Last official visits to Ireland and
    Scotland.     My retirement.     Farewell letters and compli
    ments.     Importance of having a second string to one's
    bow. Creation       of the International Association         of
    Academies.      Professor Mommsen.       Ninth Jubilee of the
    Glasgow University. Work at St. Andrews.          Preparation
    of new editions of my educational books. Centenary of the
    birth of Hugh Miller. A winter in Rome. TheCampagna.
    The Accademia dei Lincei. The Literary Society. Ninth
    International Geological Congress at Vienna.          Summer
    lightning at Miirren.
                             CHAPTER XI
                                 1903-1908
Secretaryship of the Royal Society               -                  335
       Contest for the Secretaryship.      The length of tenure of
    the offices. Committees of the Royal Society.        Relations
    of the Society with Government Departments.                 Sir
    William and Lady Huggins. Alfred Bray Kempe. Joseph
    Larmor. Francis Darwin. Lord Rayleigh, President.
    Second meeting of International Association of Academies.
    Prince of Wales dines with men of science at the Athen
    aeum Club.      Celebration at Upsala of the two-hundredth

                            CONTENTS                                  xi
                                                                    PAGE
    anniversary of the birth of Linnaeus.          Conferring of
    degrees.    Survival of mediaeval ceremonies. Celebration
    by Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences at Stockholm.
    Prince Eugen and Swedish Art.           Bestowal of K.C.B.
    The Royal Society and Antarctic Expedition. Dr. E. A.
    Wilson's Antarctic sketches and photographs. The Science
    Scholarships Committee of the Royal Commission for
    the Exhibition of 1851.        Burial of Lord Kelvin. The
    British Association in Dublin. Francis Darwin. Edouard
    Suess.    A birthday letter from Austrian geologists.
    Celebration of first centenary of the Geological Society.
    An address at the Sorbonne. Fourth Centenary of Aber
    deen    University. Smoking at dinner. Letter from
    Sir Theodore Martin. His death in sleep.               Various
    dinners recorded.     Literary work during the five years of
    the Secretaryship.
                                           -----
                            CHAPTER XII
                                1908-1913
President of the Royal Society                                      364
       Retirement of Lord Rayleigh from the Presidency.
    Election of his successor on 30th November, 1908.
    Traditional dignity and prestige of the P.R.S.        Relation
    of the Society to the Sovereign. Duties of the President.
    The Copley Medal awarded to Francis Galton.                His
    Reminiscences of his life.      Sir George Darwin. Sir E.
    Ray Lankester.       Selection of Candidates for admission
    into the Society. The Duke of Northumberland on the
    fellowship of the Society.     Representation of the Society
    on the governing bodies of public insitutions.   Relations of
    British Museum (Bloomsbury) to Natural History Museum.
    The Standing Committee. National Physical Laboratory.
    National Antarctic Expeditions. Pensions from the Civil
    List. The Society's collection of portraits. Gresham
    College. Celebration of the Society's 250th Anniversary.
    Prince      Lichnowsky. International        Association     of
    Academies at Rome (1910).         Visit to Royal Society of
    Naples.     Death of King Edward.       King and Queen of
    Italy. Reception of King George V. Origin of Geological
    Society.     Relations of the Royal Society with the
    Universities.     Seventh    Centenary   of Roger       Bacon.
    British Academy, origin of. The Classical Association.
    Revival of interest in Latin literature and archaeology.
     Italy revisited. Sulmona and Ovid. Lago di Garda and
    Catullus.     Sir Andrew Noble's Highland home. Walter
    H. Page, American ambassador, and his country's
    flag.

xii                       CONTENTS
                          CHAPTER    XIII
                                                                  FACE
Retirement in the Country                                         402
       The home at Haslemere. The Order of Merit. Portrait
    for the walls of the Royal Society. Marble bust for
    Jermyn Street Museum.      Resumption of visits to Italy.
    Horace's valley.   A busy time in Rome. Padua and its
    University. Lago di Garda and home of Catullus at
    Sirmione. Outbreak of the Great War. Papers on Horace
    and Catullus.   Family bereavements. Haslemere in war
    time. Educational Museum.      Natural History Society.
    Annals of the Royal Society Club.     Writings of John
    Michel.   Chairmanship of a Royal Commission on Trinity
    College, Dublin. Governorship    of Harrow School re
    linquished.   Honours from France. The end.
Appendix
       In Memory of Roderick Geikie                               414
Index                                                        -
                                                                  417
Portrait of the Author
Fellow-students,
                             -----
                         ILLUSTRATIONS
                     Haslemere,   October 1923
                                                 -
                                                        Frontispiece
                                                       - Facing 408

                            CHAPTER I
                       BOYHOOD    AND SCHOOL-LIFE
                                 (1835-1850)
For   many years my family had pressed upon me their
wish that I would jot down for them the recollections of
my past life ; but I had persistently evaded compliance
with this desire.    My story might be a little longer and
more varied than that of most scientific men, who are
quite content to have done their work and to be remem
bered by       without themselves attempting to write an
                 it,
account of their career or collecting material for post
humous biography.        But at last when         had entered
                                                   I
into my eighty-third year, and believed myself to have done
with official life, and to be finally domesticated in my
pleasant home in the country, my daughters, with more
insistence than ever, renewed their request that at last       I
would commit to writing the story of my life.            Their
appeal was supported             by
                              the discovery that my innate
love of work demanded some steady occupation for the
ample leisure which      now enjoyed.
                            I               was thus induced
                                               I
to look up old letters, journals and fragmentary diaries,
in order to see how far they could stimulate          memory
                                                       a
which   isitself somewhat tenacious. This search among
the records of the past was      task of mingled regret and
                                      a
pleasure    but
             ;     resulted
                       it         definite decision to narrate
                                   in   a
the successive stages of my career, as        were telling the
                                               if
                                               I
tale at my own fireside.      In describing the progress of
geological science, wherein        have taken part,
                                      I                   shall
                                                           I
generally avoid the use of technical language, and try to
make that progress intelligible, perhaps even interesting,
to the non-scientific reader.
      A.G.                            A

2                      PARENTAGE
    My    father was a respected citizen of Edinburgh, to
whose sedulous and intelligent help in my boyhood and
youth I owed much.       He was widely known as a lover of
music, which he studied as a science, as well as an art. He
wrote some Scots songs that were popular in their day,
but his chief labour was given to church music.          His
own good taste, and his familiarity with the best work of
the older musicians enabled him to render considerable
service to the progress of Scottish psalmody.        He was
for many years Music Critic to the Scotsman newspaper,
in which capacity he attended all the concerts for which
Edinburgh was noted. As he often took me with him
on these occasions, my boyhood was enriched by listening
to many great singers and instrumentalists.
   During school-life my father took a keen interest in my
daily work, and though, as he used to confess, his Latin
had grown somewhat rusty, he often helped me over
difficulties.   A lover of good literature, he had formed a
small but well-selected library, in which I browsed with
pleasure and profit.    He identified himself with my early
progress, and from the width of his circle of acquaintance,
was often able to do me timely and essential service.
The pleasure and sympathy with which he watched my
progress formed one of the greatest joys of my youth.
    My mother, Isabella Thorn, came of a seafaring race.
Her father, as captain of a vessel in the mercantile marine,
had seen a good deal of the world.         Her only brother
followed with success the same profession, and eventually
settled in New York, where he formed a nautical
school.     She herself was an indefatigable house-keeper,
looked after her family         with unfailing care and
affection, and entirely won their hearts.     She was a true
Scot, and when in the mood, could speak the vernacular
language with great purity, often using words that had
long ceased to be heard in the still current vocabulary.
    I was born in Edinburgh on 28th December, 1835.
Of one phase of my childhood I have myself no distinct
recollection, but it has often been related to me.       My
father, discovering that I had a quick ear for musical

                   MY FIRST SCHOOL                            3
sounds, taught me some simple nursery songs which I
learnt to sing correctly, though the words were childishly
pronounced.       My mother would sometimes take me
with her when shopping, and occasionally, not having
noticed that I had strayed from her side, she would hear
my voice trolling one of the familiar ditties from the back
premises, where perched on a chair, I gave the audience
" Little             " or some
          Bo-peep                 equally affecting lay.
    The visit of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert to
Scotland in the autumn of 1842 is still to me a vivid
memory.       I remember that she arrived by sea at Granton,
early in the morning, and that without delaying to land
until the various official bodies had time to muster
their deputations, she came ashore and drove through
Edinburgh, before Lord Provost Forrest and the Town
 Council, it was alleged, were out of bed. The words of a
humorous ballad that was sung and sold everywhere on
the streets come back to one's recollection :
             Hey ! Jamie Forrest are ye wauken yet    ?
                Or are your Baillies sleepin' yet ?
 Afterwards I saw the Queen and the Prince as they drove
 through the streets, with their glittering escort of cavalry.
    But the most memorable experience of this same year
 was being placed at the beginning of October in Mr.
 Black's School, 10 George Street.              It was a kind of
 preparatory day-school, of some note in its day, where
 only English was taught, together with a slight infusion of
 science, chiefly in the form of a few chemical and physical
 experiments, performed from time to time by the master.
 The pupils included both sexes, the girls being ranged
 along one side of the large room, the boys on the other.
 Mr. Black himself was a worthy man, of no great ability,
 who posed as a teacher of elocution, and gave public
 recitations, at which some of his more promising pupils
 assisted him in his exhibition of the art of declamation.
    During the three years spent at this school no attempt
 was made to teach us writing, and no written exercises
 were prescribed.       One or two of my letters, written in

  4    DISRUPTION OF KIRK OF SCOTLAND
 pencil during the last year at the seminary, have been
 preserved.    They are laboriously printed rather than
 written, capitals and small letters intermingled, each line
 beginning with a capital, and the spelling not altogether
 creditable to the school.        One of the most needful
 requisites on advancing to a public school was to speed
 up this cacography.       I passed through a succession of
 writing masters,      one  of whom, a patient painstaking
 teacher, had a strong antipathy to steel pens, and trained
 his pupils on quills.    As he passed up and down the desks,
 a good part of his  time  was taken up in mending the quills,
 which he did with infinite good nature and most enviable
 exactness.   He brought me on rapidly.
    The most important public incident that occurred
 during my time at the George Street school was witnessed
 by the pupils ; for St. Andrew's Church, where it took
 place, stood on the other side of the street, exactly opposite
to our class-rooms.       On the 1 8th May, 1843, tne town
was crowded with black coats — ministers and elders from
 every parish in Scotland, all in a ferment of excitement,
outside and inside the church, like a swarm of hiveing
bees.    I was too young to understand the cause of this
trepidation.    But no schoolboy could fail to be impressed
by the sight of the long procession of black coats, filing
out of the building and marching off to turn down the
hill to the large hall which had been engaged at Canon-
mills.    We were witnessing the actual Disruption of the
 Kirk of Scotland. The processionists whom we watched,
in their sombre attire, looked like a gigantic funeral, but
they were on their way to inaugurate a new ecclesiastical
assembly, and to found the Free Kirk of Scotland.         I can
remember one name that was on everybody's lips —
Thomas Chalmers ; and though I had never seen him,
his greatness and goodness were deeply impressed on my
memory by the universal tribute of respect from oppo
nents as well as from friends.      While I am writing these
lines (May 191 8), the newspapers announce that the
General Assemblies of the Established and the Free
Churches are holding their annual meetings in Edinburgh,

        MY FIRST APPEARANCE IN PUBLIC                         5
 where the main subject of their deliberations is the
 reunion of the two communities into one Church.          For
 seventy-five years they have lived apart, but the original
 antagonism has long since abated, and there now seems to
 be every probability that the schism will at last be healed.
    The last term at the preparatory school was followed by
 my first excursion to a distance from home.            I had
 gained my    teacher's  medal, and   had won    his good-will,
 as well as his approbation of the way in which I had
 mastered his elocution lessons.     He asked to be allowed
 to take me with him to Glasgow, that I might appear
 there as his pupil, at one of his public recitations.   Con
 sent having been obtained from my parents, he first took
 me for a few days in August 1 845 to a farm on the moors
 between Croy and Kilsyth.       For the first time in my life
 I found myself there in the midst of open and untouched
 Nature.    I can recollect the delight of solitary rambles
 in the trackless heather, then in full bloom, with clumps
of luxuriant bracken, bramble-bushes, wild roses and —
what an inexperienced boy of nine could not fail to
appreciate — acres of ripening blaeberries.           Familiar
till then only with gardens and cultivated fields, I was
deeply impressed by this wild type of landscape, and the
impression then made abides with me still.        Having been
in the habit of using the pencil, I made an attempt to
sketch a part of the scene visible from a rise on the moor,
whence the eye caught the silver surface of the Forth and
Clyde Canal, winding along the valley like a placid river,
till lost behind the distant woods.
    Recollections of the visit to Glasgow are vague and
confused.     But it was here that I made my first appear
ance in public, and I well remember standing on the
platform and facing the audience, without, so far as I can
recall, the least feeling of trepidation.   I can even recol
lect the dress I wore on the occasion.      My memory does
not retain the name of the piece or pieces which I recited,
but they would no doubt be some of the stock poems
which we learnt by heart at school.
    By far the most vivid and delightful memory of that

6       FIRST VISIT TO THE HIGHLANDS
August was my introduction to the Scottish Highlands.
Though only a transient peep into scenery which was
afterwards to become so familiar, it has left on my mind
a  clear-cut memory which has never been effaced, even
by the larger and more detailed experience of later years.
Travelling in Scotland was in those days by no means so
easy as it has now become.        I remember the opening of
the first railway in Scotland, between Edinburgh and
Glasgow, in the spring of 1 842.      Before that time the two
cities were connected by       a coach-road and a canal.     I
recall the pleasure of an excursion on that canal, with the
novel and delightful sensation of seeing fields, trees
and cottages flit past, as in one continuous panorama that
unfolded itself before one's eyes, with no feeling of move
ment in the horse-dragged barge wherein one was
slowly borne along.
    From the famous Broomielaw of Glasgow we sailed
down the Clyde in one of the many steamboats which even
in those days threaded their way along that crowded
thoroughfare.      At the foot of Loch Lomond we found a
tiny passenger steamer ready to start up the lake. The
fairy-like beauty of the islands in the lower part of that
noble sheet of water, and the huge rugged mass of Ben
Lomond towering above them, were then to me the
opening of a new world.           Landing from the steamer
at Inversnaid, we walked up the hill road to Loch
 Katrine, where a still more wonderful landscape unfolded
itself.   The sun had nearly set before we reached
 Stronachlacher, where we procured a boat and four
 stalwart Highlanders to row us down to the lower end
 of the lake, for at that time no steamboat had yet appeared
 on this lovely water.       Never shall I forget the varied
 delights of that evening.      The rays of the sunset behind
 us were lighting up the great circuit of mountain-crests
 and peaks in front, and gave an added glory to the autumn
 tints of the heath-clad slopes and bare crags.          Every
 cleft and corry above, and every tree on the declivities
 below were accurately reflected on the mirror-like surface
 of the loch. The shades of evening began to gather all

              THE SCOTT MONUMENT                            7
round us, while the rugged summits still shone in the after
glow.    And to fill up my enjoyment, as we slowly slid
along the placid mere, the full harvest moon appeared
from behind the crest of Ben Venue.         As the daylight
faded, the woods on either side grew darker and more
solemn, until the silvery sheen of the moon fell on the
still water.   No house was visible, nor any obvious trace
of man. Our boatmen, however, made the echoes re
sound with their boat-songs, which in true Celtic fashion
they sang most lustily, moving their oars to keep time
with the cadence of the music.      By the time we reached
the landing-place at the further end of the lake the last
traces of daylight had vanished, and we plunged on foot
into what seemed to be a mysterious and impenetrable
forest.     By the light of the moon, however, glinting
through    the  thick-set pines, we soon found a track or
rough road that brought us sometimes near the verge of
an impetuous river which filled the silence with its roar,
as it rushed and chafed among the rocks and boulders
of its channel. Late in the evening we reached the inn
at the Trossachs, then a much less pretentious hostelry
than its modern successor.
    Sir Walter Scott had been dead a little more than three
years when I was born.         During these and the imme
diately subsequent years there was much stir in Scotland
to raise in Edinburgh a worthy monument to his memory.
The design by George M. Kemp having been chosen, the
work of erecting his fanciful and appropriate structure
was begun in 1840.        I can recall the public interest in
watching the gradual rise of the graceful stonework, as it
 mounted upwards, buttress above buttress and pinnacle
above pinnacle, from the level of Princes Street, and the
great excitement when the last finial was placed on the
 summit.     In 1846 I saw the inauguration of this
 memorial from a window near at hand, and looked over
 the greatest concourse of human beings I had ever yet
 beheld.    I remember also the shock which ran through
 the whole community when the news spread of the
 accidental drowning of the gifted architect, before the

8            SCHOLA REGIA EDINENSIS
completion of his masterpiece.          Some of Scott's poetry
was already familiar to me, and the recent excursion into
the Highlands had brought the landscape and incidents
of the Lady of the Lake into vivid realisation.
   At the beginning of October 1845 I entered the
Edinburgh High School — the famous Schola Regia
Edinensis, at which for more than three hundred years
so large a proportion of eminent Scotsmen had been
educated.     It was still, as it had been from its earliest
record,  in   1517, under the management of the Town
Council of Edinburgh.        It had four classical masters and
a Rector.      Each master taught the same boys from
the period of their entry until, at the end of four years, they
might pass into the Rector's hands.            The master who
took, the first or most juvenile class for the year in which
I joined was Dr. James Boyd. He had since his appoint
ment conducted three classes through the four years'
course of study, and was now taking charge of his fourth
battalion.    He was a short and decidedly portly per
sonage, with a large head, well covered with curly grizzled
brown hair, and a full ruddy face, which displayed a great
range of expression from the most playful humour to the
sternest gravity.    Sitting at his raised desk, where his want
of height was concealed, his massive head reminded us of
the plaster bust of Jupiter.     No master could have a more
complete command of his pupils.           He could put into his
features such a look of severe displeasure as made the
boldest boy shrink into himself.        And this mere look was
enough to quell any little noise or disorder.         But when
occasion   arose  he could   administer    corporal punishment
with the most remarkable energy. He loved a joke, and
much to the gratification of his pupils, never failed to
catch the humorous side of any mistake or mistranslation.
Thus, while we stood in awe of him, this feeling was
mingled with respect and real liking.            It was outside
in the yards that he appeared to least advantage, for there
his short stature, notable corpulence, and wide steps, as he
strode along with a sort of jerky or springy gait, made him
a conspicuous figure.

                AN OLD SCOTS GAME                            9
    I soon grew fond of Dr. Boyd, and as I did my best to
master the work to which he set us, he kindly took notice
of my efforts, and thus began a mutual esteem which
lasted until his death, a few years after I left school.
Being, the most popular master in the High School, he
had always the largest class.     He was a sound scholar, a
good    teacher in  a  humanistic    way, bringing out the
meaning, allusions and beauties of an author, rather than
dwelling on the niceties of grammatical construction and
the quantities of syllables.   He had edited several classics
for educational    purposes, also an edition of Adam's
Roman Antiquities, of which         large impressions were
sold. To him I owe the beginning of an appreciation
of the Latin classics which has been a joy to me all
my life.
   At first the change was rather overpowering from the
quietude of the George Street school to the buzz and stir
of the playground, filled with nearly five hundred boys,
and to the presence of some seventy class-fellows in a
specially capacious room, with windows facing towards
the Bay of Prestonpans.      At that time athletics formed no
part of the ordinary curriculum in the High School.
The only instruction provided in physical training was a
non-obligatory course of fencing and gymnastics. Cricket
had not yet been generally established in Scotland.          A
good many years had to pass before this game was
properly organised, with open ground on which to play it.
The one great game then in vogue on the tolerably
extensive gravelly yards of the school was that of the
Cleckenbrod or Clecken — an interesting survival of an old
Scottish game which seems to be now extinct.            In my
                                     "
boyhood it could still be said that nothing was to be seen
in the hands of the boys but cleckenbrods."               Each
member of the school, even before he had obtained all the
necessary class-books, took care to provide himself with
one of these implements.      It was a battledore, made out
of one piece of stout elm, possessing such elasticity that a
ball could be driven with it through the air to a con
siderable distance. The game was played by two sides

io           THE GAME OF              " PAIPS "
between   two goals ; the object of the side which led off
being to get the ball to the opposite goal, while that of the
other side was to drive it back to its starting-point.         Some
skill and practice were required to lift the ball from the
ground with the clecken, never with the hand, before an
opponent could reach      it,and then to send   it    away as far as
possible.    Many   a  fierce  tussle  arose,   the   ball being hit
along the ground until        reached some open space, where
                             it
one of the players could deftly raise    it  into the air with his
clecken, and drive      it off in the right direction.          The
cleckenbrod was carried with the class-books back and
forward to school, and usually hung from the wrist             by   a
string fastened to the end of the shaft.
   There were of course the usual games of wrestling,
leap-frog and such like, together with not infrequent
warlike sieges and stubborn defences of class-room
entrances, as well as other escapades to keep the body
active, while in the proper season there were quieter
amusements     in sheltered parts of the yards, such as mar
bles,  and   in the   weeks when cherries were ripe, the
variously-played game of Paips.         This was Scottish form
                                                   a
of the ancient games of Nuces, played         by    the Greeks and
Romans with nuts or acorns.              One     of   the forms of
the game, as played at the High School, was to place on
the ground, at the base of the high wall on the north side of
                                          "
the yards, three cherry-stones, called paips," with fourtha
on the top of them, so as to form       a  little pyramid.      The
player who, from    a  certain measured distance could throw
a  paip so as to dislodge the pyramid took the top of the
pile, or the whole of   it, as his prize, while    if  he missed his
aim, his missile, or another cherry-stone, was forfeited to
his opponent.      In this form of the game was always the
                                                it
object  of  the  player to select the largest and heaviest
cherry-stone he could find.         A High School boy accus
tomed to the game, when he came to enter on the serious
 business of life might literally quote the Latin phrase
Nuces reliqui  (I have given up my Paips).
    Three months after my entry, namely, on 3rd January,
 1846, the High School was thrown into excitement                   by

          INDUCTION OF A NEW RECTOR                        n
the arrival and induction of a new Rector.        Dr. Carson
had resigned the rectorship in the previous autumn, and
the Town Council had elected Dr. Leonard Schmitz in
his place.     The whole school, as on prize-giving day,
was mustered in the Great Hall, each class headed by its
master.     Probably none of our class had ever seen any
thing    of the  kind before. There in the centre of the
audience sat the Lord Provost, magistrates and town
councillors in their official red robes, with their attendant
halbert-bearing lictors in uniform.       The sight of this
dignified company brought before the boys, in its most
imposing guise, our body of governors, and we naturally
felt prouder than ever to be looked after by such a
 resplendent company.
     In the centre, too, our attention was arrested by the
appearance of a tall thin man, with a pale earnest student
 like face, long sleek hair, wanting an arm, and wearing a
 black robe.     This proved to be our new Rector. The
 galleries were filled with a crowd of gaily-dressed ladies,
 mostly mothers, aunts, and elder sisters of the boys. After
 the Principal of the University had opened the pro
 ceedings with prayer, the Lord Provost, who at that time
 was Adam Black, the well-known publisher, rose and made
 a speech wherein, after an eulogium of the retiring
  Rector, he gave a laudation of his successor whom he
  formally introduced.     He had some words too for us boys.
  It was a pleasure to the juveniles of the first class to see
  that the next man who spoke was no other than their
  own master, Dr. Boyd.       He, as the senior master, said
  how pleased his colleagues and he were with the choice
  which the Town Council had made.         We knew that one
  of those masters had been a candidate for the rectorship,
  and we hoped that he was pleased too. After a few words
  of praise for the newcomer, whose works were already well
  known in this country, our master gave place to the new
  Rector.     Of course, we all strained our ears to catch
   every   word   he said.  Although a German by birth,
   Dr. Schmitz spoke English fluently, but with a per
   ceptible foreign accent.     He finished his speech by

12     SCOTS PRONUNCIATION                     OF LATIN
addressing a few words to the boys, hoping that he and
we would get on well together, and assuring us that he
would do all he could for our benefit.
   I soon became keenly interested in Latin. The
elementary grammar which we used was essentially
based on Ruddiman's Rudiments — a book which had been
in use in Scotland for nearly a century and a half.          Rud-
diman's metrical rules, in Latin hexameters, for genders
of nouns and for the quantities of syllables we learnt off
by. heart, and I can still repeat some of them.               The
pronunciation taught was the old "Scots form, which was
nearly the same as the Continental, dating as it did from
the time when the teaching in the Universities of Scotland
was in Latin, and when Scots professors filled chairs in
foreign seminaries as effectively as they did in those of
their own country.          The English pronunciation was
as difficult to understand in Scotland as it was abroad.         I
well remember that a boy from the grammar-school of
Skipton, in Yorkshire, who had joined our class, was
called up to read and translate the familiar lines in the
Metamorphoses     of Ovid, beginning
         Ante mare  et terras, et quod tegit omnia, caelum.
It was the first time we boys had ever heard the English
way of reading Latin, but the lad was stopped at the first
                                                   '
two words by Dr. Boyd, who called out                What ? what ?
                                                                 "
Aunty Mary      ! : we   shall be having Uncle Tom next !
In later life, the Scottish pronunciation of Latin which
one had learnt at school served me in good stead in
Arctic Norway, as will be told in a subsequent chapter.
   It was an amusing task to translate into English verse
such Latin as that of the fables of Phaedrus.               By the
time we reached the Metamorphoses of Ovid I had
acquired some facility in this kind of versification, and
boldly adventured to translate Ovid's account of the
Four Ages into English heroic metre. Our master
handed this juvenile attempt to Dr. Steven, who was at
that time engaged in writing his History of the High School
of Edinburgh, and it was inserted in his volume which

        THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY                          13
appeared in 1849.        This was my first production in
print.
    Our worthy master, in order to encourage drawing
and map-making among his pupils, used to offer exemp
tion from attendance at school on Saturday to those who
handed in creditable drawings or maps, Saturday being
always a half holiday.       I often availed myself of the
privilege, which was, however, of doubtful advantage.
It is true that I gained the whole of the last day of the
week for a country ramble, and the prosecution of the
pursuits in natural history which had begun greatly to
interest me.     But on the other hand, I lost the revision
of the work of the week, — in some respects the most
useful lesson of all.
    In July, at the end of the session, the annual prize-
giving took place in the Great Hall, when a large con
course of visitors filled the galleries.    I remember that
on one of these occasions Thomas Babington Macaulay
was present,     brought thither by his trusty political
supporter, Lord Provost Black, who officiated in the chair.
It was worthy of lifelong remembrance that I received my
prize under the eyes of the illustrious author of the
Lays of Ancient Rome.      The perusal of these poems, of
which I could then repeat long passages by heart, had
not a little to do in developing my boyish love of Roman
history and Latin poetry.
    It was during these school years that I had the unfor
gettable happiness of seeing Helen Faucit on the stage
of the Edinburgh Theatre Royal, of which Scott's
friend, William Murray, had long been manager.             In
February 1849 sne appeared there in several of her
favourite Shakespeare characters, such as Juliet, Portia
and Beatrice.     The charm of her voice at once captivated
me, and her acting revealed to my boyish imagination the
nobility of womanhood.       In long subsequent years, when
I became intimate with her husband, Sir Theodore
Martin, these early reminiscences of her greatness were
among the links that cemented our friendship.       Through
my   father's appreciation of good acting, I was often taken,

 14        THEATRICAL RECOLLECTIONS
in those schoolboy years, to the Theatre Royal, where
                                                       " Will
some of the best actors of the day appeared.
          "
Murray himself was excellent in comedy. He would
take quite subordinate parts. Thus he played one of the
witches in Macbeth, and made the part one of the most
powerful in the drama.       As long as he was manager he
kept together a good company, and introduced from time
to time the leading members of the profession from the
south.    One of my earliest dramatic recollections is to
have seen the famous Charles Mackay in one of his latest
appearances    as Bailie Nicol Jarvie in the dramatised
version of Rob Roy.       It must have been a wonderful
performance when he was in his prime, as Scott's letters
bear witness.
    Among the early reminiscences which the narrative of
these school-days recalls is my father's intimacy with
James Ballantine, a minor Scots poet who was well known
in literary society from the publication of his Gaber-
lunzies Wallet and Life of David Roberts, and for his
revival of the art of painting on glass.   Some of his songs,
set to music by my father, were, as I have already said,
popular in their day.     He was a favourite in our family,
and I can still recall his broad smiling face, his hearty
laugh, his merry humour, and his broad Scots speech.
His work in glass-painting having given him fame beyond
his own country, he was commissioned to execute some
of the stained windows in the House of Lords.
    Before passing on from the subject of the life of the
Schola Regia Edinensis, I may allude to my last interview
with good old Dr. Boyd.        It took place some years after
I had quitted school and not long before his death.
Having to make a call in one of the quiet terraces beyond
the school, I saw him walking slowly towards me and
intently reading.    As I drew near he lifted his eyes from
his book, and recognising me, stood still and began a
friendly talk, in the course of which he alluded to the
volume in his hand, which, if I remember, was the work
of some old divine. " You see," he said, " all we can
carry with us into the next world is the knowledge we

               MY FIRST-FOUND FOSSIL                            15
have gained in this.        And   so,  I fill up my spare moments
in storing my mind with thoughts which I shall then be
glad to remember."
    During school-life, another kind of education was
going on in the country rambles to which Saturdays
were devoted, and in which the boys in great measure
taught each other.         It was thus that we learnt to recog
nise trees and wild flowers.           In our incursions into the
woodlands we now and then came upon the little black
wild cherries which we knew by the Scots name of geans.
We afterwards learnt that this is the Scots spelling of
guignes, the French name of the fruit, and one of the verbal
relics of the ancient alliance between Scotland and
France.
     For some years I gave myself up to collecting diurnal
lepidoptera, and succeeded in forming a collection of the
commoner butterflies and day-moths of Midlothian.
 It was while these desultory natural history pursuits were
in full progress that the incident occurred which turned
me into the hitherto untrodden geological field, and of
which I have elsewhere given an account.1             My comrades
had come upon a group of limestone quarries a few miles
to the south of Edinburgh of which they gave me so
highly coloured a description that I resolved to go with
                                     "
them next Saturday to their            cave of wonders."     When
we reached the quarries, I bent over a mound of broken
fragments of the limestone, and the first piece which I
 picked up contained my first-found                fossil.  It was
thought by the leader of the previous excursion to be a
 fish, but it afterwards proved to be the seed-cone or
 catkin of an ancient form of club-moss.
     Here was a momentous experience, which called forth
 the sense of thoughtful wonder more vividly than any
 incident had done before in the course of my boyish
 pursuits.     It brought to my recollection the opening of
 the Wizard's tomb at Melrose, described in The Lay of the
 Last Minstrel, and the sudden issue of the glamorous light
 from the grave. As I broke up the blocks of stone and
            1
              Geological Sketches at Home and Abroad, p. i.

 1 6         HOW I BECAME GEOLOGIST
laid open fragment after fragment of plants, delicately
preserved, a light seemed to stream into my mind from
these buried relics.        To discover that beneath the present
surface of the earth with all its life and beauty, in which
our young souls delighted, there lay entombed in the
subterranean rocks the remains of plants, unlike, but
perhaps once not less beautiful, than those with which
we were familiar, yet vastly more ancient ; to realise that
every organism which we could lay bare to the light of day
had never before been seen by human eyes and to feel
that there might perhaps be no end to the variety of once
living things which we might unearth — all this was
new and startling.         It came as a revelation that filled my
mind with an indescribable pleasure, not unmingled with
awe and an earnest longing to know more.1                   Thence
forward    the   rocks   and    their fossils became   increasingly
the subject of my everyday thoughts.             Other branches of
natural history were gradually relinquished, and the
rambles round Edinburgh, or to a distance from that
centre, became more and more geological.
     In those wanderings into the Midlothian coal-field, one
was brought into contact with a phase of life which seems
now to be almost incredible.            For many generations the
colliers and salters of Scotland were adscript glebae,
literally slaves, who by law were bound to the places
where they worked, and could be legally reclaimed by their
owners if they dared to shift elsewhere.                   The last
Act of Parliament which broke their chains was only
passed so late as 1 799.        The older men and women whom
I used to see in the wretched colliery villages had actually
been born in servitude, for in spite of Acts of Parliament,
their masters continued to keep hold on them by letting
them run into debt.           In those days I never ventured to
descend into a coal pit, but I have many a time watched
the salters at their task in its different stages of obtaining
salt by boiling down sea water at the
                                                "       "
                                                  pans     along the
coast to the east     of Edinburgh.
             1
               His me rebus quaedam divina voluptas
               Percipit atque horror.       Lucretius, III. 28.

   INTRODUCTION TO MEN OF SCIENCE                             17
    The quarries of Burdiehouse proved        to be the means of
my first introduction into the company of scientific men.
I had found a fossil form in the limestone which I could
determine neither from Dr. Hibbert's paper on the
Burdiehouse limestone in the Transactions of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, nor from Lindley and Hutton's
treatise on Fossil Plants.       My father having mentioned
my difficulty    to  Robert   Chambers, received a few days
afterwards from him the following note :
                                                   "
                                                      Happening
to meet Professor Fleming, I mentioned to him that your
son had found a fossil vegetable in Burdiehouse quarry
which he believed to be new, or supposed might prove to
be so.    At the same time I told the Professor how the
youth had entered with such zeal upon the study of
geology.     The worthy Doctor was interested, and very
readily agreed to my proposal that he should see and
pronounce upon the fossil.           The young geologist may
therefore,  if he  pleases, call  on Dr. Fleming any morning,
and show him the object, when I have no doubt he will get
the best decision upon it which Edinburgh can afford.          I
would suppose it to be worth his while thus to make
acquaintance with so eminent a naturalist."
    Robert Chambers, one of the two partners in the famous
publishing house known by their name, was a conspicuous
citizen of Edinburgh.            Over and above his active
devotion to the business of spreading literature through
the country, he was much interested in science, and was
shrewdly suspected to be the author of the Vestiges of the
Natural History of Creation, which had been published in
 1 844, and had made a great stir, not only among men of
science, but in the community at large.            My acquaint
ance with him, now begun, lasted as long as he lived, and
allusions to it will appear in later chapters of this narrative.
    Professor John Fleming, the most distinguished
naturalist of his day in Scotland, was at this time sixty-five
years of age and filled the chair of Natural Science in the
New College, Edinburgh.            Besides his zoological works,
which have become classics in science, he had published
papers on geological subjects, in which he did not always

    1 8              EARLY TEXT-BOOKS
   agree with the general opinion   of his day.  When I called
   upon him I found him engaged with Dr. Robert Kaye
   Greville, the eminent botanist.     This was for my errand
   a fortunate conjuncture, seeing that Dr. Greville was the
   resident authority whom one would have selected to
                 on the fossil.  The specimen was carefully
    ooked at by both of the learned men, and was decided to
   f)ronounce
   be a macerated    example of the fern known as Sphenopteris
   bifida.   It had lain long, soaking and rotting in the soft
   mud which was now hard limestone, till all its softer parts
   had disappeared leaving only a skeleton of its structure.
   Dr. Greville soon after this time went into politics, and I
   do not remember to have ever met him again ; but from
   time to time I saw Professor Fleming.
       During these years every book relating to geology on
   which I could lay hands was eagerly read.        The text
   books, notably those of Lyell, De La Beche, and the
, small school-book     of David Page were my chief autho
  rities.   But the volume from which, of all others, most
  stimulus came was the immortal Old Red Sandstone
  of Hugh Miller. Though it supplied little of the
  information of which one stood most in need, it communi
  cated some of the inspiration and enthusiasm of a true
  lover of nature, and revealed the spirit and methods of an
  ardent investigator in what was to me a hitherto unex
  plored field.    I certainly owe more to the impulse given
  by that book than to any other piece of writing in scientific
  literature.    At the same time I was captivated by the
  author's style.      My earliest attempts in geological
  essay-writing    showed   how powerful this mastery was.
  But Miller's English was pure and idiomatic, based on a
  wide range of reading in English literature, and was there
  fore by no means a bad model to follow until a style of
  one's own could be worked out.
      But above and beyond all books, the fresh open face of
  nature was my best source of inspiration and instruction.
  Few parts of the British Isles are better fitted to awaken
  and sustain an interest in the past history of our globe
  than the region in which the city of Edinburgh stands.

                 FIRST VISIT TO LONDON                       19
  The stratified rocks with their inclosed fossil plants and
  animals are laid bare to the sky in many picturesque
  ravines and water-courses, and they are well displayed
  along the shores of the Firth of Forth.      But besides the
  ordinary sources of interest which these rocks present all
  over the British Isles, they are here invested with an added
  attraction, in the abundant evidence which they contain of
  groups of ancient volcanoes that were active when the
  stratified rocks were in the course of deposition.    Though
  it was the organic remains which first awoke my geological
 ardour, before long my attention was strongly diverted
 to the volcanic history of the region.          Comparatively
 little had been done in the investigation of this subject.
  Some of the men, indeed, such as Robert Jameson, were
 still living who had scorned the idea that any of the rocks
 of the district had a volcanic origin. But Charles
 Maclaren had demonstrated the volcanic nature of
 Arthur's Seat and the Pentland Hills, and his excellent
 descriptions were of great value to me.
     From this geological digression I return to my school-
 life and its holidays.     Of these the furthest afield was a
 visit to London in the autumn of 1848.            As in those
 days    the continuous   railway  connexion   between    Edin
 burgh and London had not been fully established, the
journey to and from the south of England continued to be
 usually made by steamboat.        It was my first sea-voyage,
 and it has left in my mind a pleasant memory of islands,
 sea-cliffs and sea-gulls, sailing ships of divers sizes,
distant fields, and occasional towns, and in the evening a
succession     of lighthouses, twinkling and flashing one
after another as we passed along the coast.            Looking
back on the impressions left by the stay in London, I am
inclined to doubt whether a boy, hardly in his teens,
should be rushed through the manifold sights of the great
metropolis.      He does not yet possess the amount of
general knowledge required to enable him to understand
and enjoy a tithe of what is shown to him.      I carried away
a confused jumble of impressions, amidst which only a
few incidents still stand out clear and sharp.      One of the

             " BURNING                         "
20                           THE WATER
most prominent of these is a visit to the House of Lords,
where I saw the great Duke of Wellington.         I kept my
eye steadily fixed on him as he sat, and occasionally moved
about.    The stooping figure with the white hair and high
stock, fastened with a large silver buckle behind, remains
indelibly fixed in my memory.
    One of the pleasantest of the excursions during my
school holidays was made with a school-fellow to a family
of his acquaintance in the vale of the Gala Water. We
were fortunate enough to take part in the great sport of
"
   burning the water," so graphically described in Guy
Mannering.      It was indeed a stirring sight, when, as
dusk set in, the company assembled on the banks of the
river to spear salmon by torchlight.         Two or three
                                       "         "
stalwart yeomen with lights and          Hesters    (or long
pronged spears), entered the water and began to move to
the places which the fish frequented.     The flare of light
on the surface of the river, throwing the figures of the
sportsmen into strong dark relief, as holding their uplifted
weapons, they peered into the depths, and the shouts of
 the crowd on the banks when, after a sudden splash, the
 Hester emerged with a fish, made a scene of memorable
 picturesqueness.    This form of sport being now illegal,
 I think myself lucky to have seen it in full operation.

                      CHAPTER II
  A WRONG START.        HOW THINGS WERE RIGHTED
                         (1850-1855)
The time duly arrived when it     was necessary to settle the
problem of what calling should be chosen for a lad whose
whole bent lay towards natural history pursuits.              It
never occurred to his parents that a love of geology could
possibly lead to any situation with the prospect of a
desirable future, although it might always be a pleasant
occupation for leisure hours and holidays.          We had an
old family friend, manager of one of the large banks in
Edinburgh, who urged that I should join his staff, where
he would be glad to look after my interests.         This voca
tion was ultimately selected, and as some preliminary
legal training was considered desirable in a banker,
it was arranged that I should spend two years in the office
of a Writer to the Signet. The firm selected was that of
William Fraser, a kindly and picturesque old gentleman,
son of Luke Fraser, the master under whom Sir Walter
Scott sat for three years, at the High School.            I well
remember my first interview with him in his house in
Castle Street, which was not far from opposite to that
where Scott lived and wrote.       I was a little fellow, rather
delicate in appearance, while he, before he began to stoop,
must have been six feet in height.        He was almost com
pletely  bald, such  scanty  locks   as remained    were white,
and his face beamed with benevolence.             He took me
by both hands, placed me on a chair and sat down beside
me.    After asking a number of questions about my
 studies, as to which and my standing in school he had

  22              A LAWYER'S OFFICE
  previously enquired of my old master, Dr. Boyd, he told
 me that, as he was becoming an old man, he did not take
 as much business, or keep as large a staff as heretofore ;
 and that there might now and then come times when
 there would not be much for me to do.
                                             " But never be
 idle," said he. At any time when work had slackened,
 I was to come into his library, which contained a good
 collection of books in law and literature, and make choice
 of a volume. Some time afterwards, on the occasion
 of one of these slack intervals, I had picked out of his
 shelves a copy of Hume's Philosophical Essays, which at
 the end of the day was duly placed inside my desk.       By
 next morning the volume had been restored to its place
 in the library, the worthy lawyer probably considering
 it his duty not to allow such dangerous mental food to
 be taken under his roof, by so young a reader.
     I soon found, as might have been expected, that for me
the work of a lawyer's office was unspeakably dull.
Notwithstanding the sympathy and friendly assistance
of the head-clerk, I was not learning much law, though I
certainly did acquire some little knowledge of business
habits, which has stood me in good stead since then.
A further gain arose from the care, neatness and legibility
required in the preparation of legal documents.     Having
thus to cultivate caligraphy, I formed a handwriting which
has always been at least legible.
    During this time my heart was often far away from
Castle Street, among the hills and water-courses of
Midlothian, where I had found such manifold sources
of interest and enjoyment. The brief summer holidays
were consequently eagerly welcomed when every day
from morning till night could be spent in the field.      In
the year 1 851 the choice was offered to me of another
visit to London, or a few weeks of geologising in the
island of Arran.     Without the least hesitation the latter
was     chosen.  Delightful and instructive as the Great
Exhibition of that year would doubtless have been, I
felt sure that it would possess less real value for me, in
what had become the most absorbing pursuit of my life,

               FIRST VISIT TO ARRAN                         23
than the opportunity of seeing with my own eyes, the
geological structure of an island which had the reputation
of containing within its borders an epitome of the geo
logy of both the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland.
   Accordingly on 3rd September I sailed from the
Broomielaw of Glasgow in one of the steamboats which
plyed direct between Glasgow and Arran, and took
five hours on the voyage. The scenery of the river
below Dumbarton and of the Firth of Clyde, with the
fine group of Arran mountains, now seen for the first
time, gave me a thrill of pleasure. There was then no
steamboat pier at Brodick, passengers being landed in
small boats.    This holiday proved to be one prolonged
enjoyment.     Every day brought some new wonders of
scenery, some fresh details of geological interest, and
some unexpected sights in natural history.         My early
love of butterflies was revived in the midst of such a
number and variety of them as I had never before seen.
Even as high as the top of Goatfell, they were flying about
in the warm sunshine.        The day being fine and clear,
the view from the summit was seen at its best.        To one
who had never before been so high as 2866 feet above the
sea, nor seen at one time so wide an area of the earth's
surface, it was an experience never to be forgotten, to
gaze over an expanse of land and sea that stretched from
Ben Lomond and the Highland mountains on the north,
across the blue Firth and far over the Lowlands to the
heights of Galloway on the south, and thence to the
blue cliffs of Ireland.      Nor less impressive was it to
look westward from this elevation down into the glens
and corries of Arran itself, and to enjoy for the first
time a close view of the details of rugged mountain
scenery.
   The time spent in   the island was not only delightful but
singularly instructive.    With the aid of the excellent little
pamphlet by A. C. Ramsay on the geology of Arran, I
was able to go straight to the sections I specially wished
to visit, and to gain a clear general view of the structure
of the island.    Returning to duty from this memorable

24     INTRODUCTION TO HUGH MILLER
                                                         "
excursion, I wrote two articles under the title of         Three
Weeks in Arran, by a young geologist," which the editor
of one of the Edinburgh newspapers, who was a family
friend, inserted in his columns in the month of December.
They were most juvenile productions, but their publication
proved unexpectedly fortunate for their author.              Mr.
Andrew Coventry, an advocate at the Scottish bar,
asked my father whether the writer of the articles would
like an introduction to Hugh Miller. Of course I was
overjoyed at the prospect of coming into personal touch
with one whom I already reverenced as a kind of demigod.
His appearance as he walked the streets of Edinburgh
was familiar to me — a man above the middle height,
strongly-built and broad-shouldered, clad in a suit of
rough tweed, with a shepherd's plaid across his chest,
his shock of sandy hair escaping from under a soft felt
hat to join his large bushy whiskers.1           At this time he
lived in a detached house between Edinburgh and
Portobello. When, after the letter of introduction had
reached him, I presented myself in person, he received
me with great kindness, remarking that he had read my
articles and had wished to find out their author, whom he
had not supposed to be quite so young a geologist as he
proved to be.        He ushered me into his sanctum, where
the treasures of his long years of research were stored,
many of the specimens being familiar to me from the
engravings of them published in his books.
    We were soon on the most friendly footing.              I re
member with what surprise and pride I received his
first letter written within a fortnight of our meeting,
which I have carefully preserved.          It ran as follows :
                               Witness Newspaper Office
                            Edinburgh 15th January 1852.
 My dear Sir
              I  trust to be quite at leisure on the evening of
 Saturday and shall expect to see you at six o'clock to
    •"Hugh Miller, his Work and Influence,"    in my Landscape in
 History, p. 257.

     SIR   WILLIAM LOGAN AND HIS MAPS                    25
take a quiet cup of tea with me, and discuss a few geo
logical facts.    A return omnibus passes my house at
nine in the evening for Edinburgh.         Yours truly,
                                          Hugh Miller.
    From that time onwards till he died I often spent an
evening with him at his home in Portobello. We met
also in Edinburgh ; for when he had a paper to read at the
Royal Physical Society, he would send me a note of
invitation to attend.     These papers of his were always
interesting, the observations in them being generally
new to science and, together with the specimens that
illustrated them, having been not infrequently explained
to me already under his own roof.         He read his com
munications himself with a strong northern accent and
                                        "
pronunciation.      After his paper on a Raised sea-bottom
               "
at Fillieside    was read, he asked me to accompany him
to the locality itself, that I might judge of the reality of
the evidence which some critics had called in question.
He there completely convinced me of the accuracy of his
observations.     It was a valuable lesson to see in what a
masterly way he had gathered all the evidence on which
 his conclusions were based.
    About the same time that the much valued friendship
of Hugh Miller was gained, another acquaintance was
made which proved to be of hardly less importance.
Through Mr. Edmond Logan, Writer to the Signet, I
was introduced to his brother William, the eminent
Director of the Geological Survey of Canada, who about
 this time had occasion to come to England, in connexion
 with the important collections of rocks and minerals
 which Canada contributed to the Great Exhibition of
 1
   85 1.  When on this side of the Atlantic, he usually
 paid a visit to Edinburgh, where he had been educated
 at the High School.      His brother would kindly send me
 word of his arrival, and I enjoyed long interviews with
 the veteran geologist, who spread his maps on the floor
 where, both on our knees, he gave detailed accounts of
 his work, showing at the same time the diagrams and

26      FRIENDSHIP OF GEORGE WILSON
sketches    in his note-books.      Besides his geological
qualifications, he was a true artist, gifted with the faculty
of presenting, in a few rapid lines, vivid glimpses of the
landscapes he had beheld as he worked his way along the
great rivers, in forest-clad, unexplored regions, known
only to the Indians.        In the midst of his scientific
expositions   he would   now  and then pause to intercalate
the narrative of some adventure or whimsical episode that
had taken place on the ground to which he was referring.
These hours, so freely given to me, were not only inter
esting as personal records ; they at the same time opened
up broad views of geological structure and of methods of
investigation, all entirely new to me.     Years afterward I
was able in some slight measure to repay Sir William's
kindness.     When some active, but parsimonious and
unsympathetic politicians, in Canada were opposing the
continuance of the Canadian Geological Survey out of
 public funds, and were causing him a good deal of
anxiety, I wrote some unsigned articles pointing out the
 great importance of the work done by him and his
 Survey staff, both from a scientific and economic point of
view.     These articles, appearing in an English journal,
 were, it was said, not without effect in his favour in the
colony.
    There was yet another friend of my youth who was led
 by the papers on Arran to interest himself in my career —
 Dr. George Wilson, well known as the biographer of
 Henry Cavendish, and as a writer and speaker of singular
 charm.     He was likewise a chemist of repute, author of
 some original papers on fluorine, and lecturer on chemistry
 in the extra-mural school in Edinburgh.      He became my
 warmest and most active benefactor, treating me as a son,
 and ever on the outlook for some further way of en
 couraging and advancing me.        It was in his class-room
 that I learnt the principles of chemistry, in his laboratory
 that I acquired the art of analysis, and in his house that I
 made the acquaintance of his friend, Alexander Mac-
 millan, the publisher — an acquaintance which after
 wards ripened into the most intimate friendship.     Besides

               JAMES DAVID FORBES                        27
all the science he taught me, there was the memorable
lesson of his cheerful patience and endurance, in feeble
health and often in great bodily suffering, under which
he clung to his work till death released him.
   With grateful recollections I name another eminent
man of science who in these early years gave me en
couragement.     One day I received a note from James
David Forbes, the distinguished Professor of Natural
Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh and Alpine
explorer, asking me to breakfast with him.         His tall
spare figure was daily to be seen in the streets, as he
passed to the College or to the rooms of the Royal Society
of Edinburgh —his sunken cheeks, the pallor of his
well-chiselled features which had been preyed on by
serious illness ; his long neck, round which he always
wore one of the large neckcloths then in vogue, and above
this, when out of doors, the thick muffler, from under
which, as he passed, one might now and then hear the
cough, that told of the malady from which he was suffering.
   After breakfast he took me into his study and showed
some of the beautiful water-colour         drawings which
he had made in the course of his wanderings among
the Alps and in Norway.       The memory abides with me
of the thin, white, slender, and almost transparent hands
that turned over the sketches, as he described them and
the circumstances in which they were taken.             Our
interview concluded with a piece of practical advice.
" You will have to climb                              "
                                                        and
                              mountains," he said,
feel thirst.  Let me urge you never to carry spirituous
liquor of any kind with you. I have always found by
far the most effective resource to be a flask of cold tea."
In later years I saw much of Forbes at intervals, and my
regard for him deepened as time went on.       He was one
of the most beautiful and interesting personalities whom
I have ever known.
   Forbes early in life had shown keen interest in geology.
There can be no doubt that had he thrown himself into
the active prosecution of geological research with the
same ardour which distinguished his study of the physics

 28             HENRY CLIFTON SORBY
 of glaciers, he  would have been one of the leading geolo
 gists of his day.    In his memory the remembrance still
 remained fresh of the warfare of the Plutonists and
 Neptunists in Edinburgh, and in his youth some of the
 combatants were still alive, including the two great
 Huttonian protagonists John Playfair and James Hall,
 and the stout partisan of Werner, Robert Jameson.
 Forbes used often to express to his friends the sadness
with which he had watched the slow fading of the halo
that shone round Scottish geology in his youth.
    One of the few citizens of Edinburgh who interested
 themselves in geological matters in my youth was Alex
ander Bryson, partner in a well-known firm of watch
makers.      So far as I know, he had never done any
original scientific work of importance ; his chief claim
to notice lay in his having acquired the valuable collection
of apparatus and thin slices of fossil woods and minerals
which had belonged to the ingenious William Nicol,
inventor of the prism that bears his name.            Having
made Bryson's       acquaintance   I   had opportunities of
examining the Nicol specimens, and while so engaged,
met for the first time Henry Clifton Sorby of Sheffield,
who came to Edinburgh for the express purpose of seeing
Nicol's collection, and with whom I then began a friend
ship which lasted as long as he lived.        It was deeply
interesting    to watch  the  dexterity and acuteness with
which Sorby worked over the thin sections of minerals
under the microscope.        He divined the important use
to which Nicol's method of investigation could be turned
in the study of the minute structures of minerals and
rocks, and the light which could thus be thrown on their
history.    In a year or two after this time he had carried
his researches so far as to enable him to prepare for the
Geological Society the celebrated essay which revol
utionised the science of Petrology.      Up to this time the
ultimate chemical constitution of rocks could be deter
mined by chemical analysis, but the component minerals
could often only be more or less vaguely inferred, and no
light was thrown on the inner structure of these masses.

       THE LAWYER'S OFFICE FORSAKEN                           29
Nicol's method, based upon the preparation of thin
translucent sections of even dense rocks, opened up
a new vista for research into the history of the earth's
crust.
     "
       The invention all admired, and each how he
       To be the inventor missed ; so easy it seemed
       Once found, which yet unfound, most would have thought
       Impossible."
    Before the end of my two years in the lawyer's office,
it had become evident to my parents, as it had long been
to myself, that the career which they had carefully
planned for me was hopelessly impossible, and that the
sooner I turned my face in another direction, the better
it would probably be for my future.            The final rupture
of my mercantile life was immediately brought about by
an attack of scarlet fever, which greatly reduced my
strength.     After several attempts to return to Castle
Street, I was compelled to take a long holiday, part of
which was spent in London, where I passed many happy
and profitable hours among the galleries of the newly-
established Museum of Practical Geology in Jermyn
Street.    On returning home, I finally took leave of my
benevolent Writer to the Signet.
    The outlook was now somewhat blank.                  What I
would    fain obtain was some post       where    the passion for
geology    could  find  scope.    Such  posts   must  confessedly
be few, if indeed any existed at all.          But obviously the
most urgent course in the meantime was to go through
such a training as would fit one for any post of the kind
which might present itself, or indeed for any other calling.
This course of action was approved by my father, cheer
fully willing, out of his slender resources, to defray my
expenses at the University.        To ease his burden, as much
as was in my power, I undertook the tuition of private
pupils.
    In regard to the teaching of geology there was at that
time no inducement to attend the University of Edin
 burgh.     The professor of Natural History (which in
 cluded geology and mineralogy) was Robert Jameson,

 30      UNIVERSITY TRAINING CHOSEN
 now a feeble old man, whose lectures were read for him
 by an assistant, but with no course of practical instruction
 which forms so essential a part of proper training.
There was then in Edinburgh a private teacher, Alex
ander Rose by name, who, possessing a good collection of
 minerals, taught mineralogy to the few pupils who wished
 to study that branch of science.    I attended his lectures
and demonstrations, and met there for the first time Dr.
 M. Foster Heddle, with whom acquaintance ripened
afterwards into intimate friendship.      Eventually he be
came Professor of Chemistry in the University of St.
Andrews, and was acknowledged to be the best miner
alogist of his day in Scotland.    As already mentioned,, I
now attended the chemistry lectures of Dr. George Wilson,
and went through a course of practical analysis in his
laboratory.    Such training would be helpful in the further
pursuit of geological studies.
    At the same time I was anxious that my training
should not be only in science, but should embrace also
the humanistic side of culture.     From the High School
I had carried away a strong love of the Latin and Greek
classics, and had kept up the reading of them in leisure
hours.    Horace in particular was a constant companion.
But I now began with renewed energy to read both the
languages with an excellent, but somewhat eccentric
scholar, William Skae, well known by sight on the
streets of Edinburgh, where he always trotted along,
looking neither to right nor left, and flourishing in his
hand a bright red cotton handkerchief.        I had already
acquired a good knowledge of French, which has en
abled me ever since to read the language with ease.
I had also made some progress in the acquisition of
German.
   While these studies were in active cultivation, I heard,
for the first time, of the existence of the Geological
Survey.    My ever kind friend, Dr. George Wilson,
seeing my strong propensity towards geology, had made
some enquiries about this branch of the public service,
which had been at work for some fifteen years in the

 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY FIRST HEARD OF                             31
 south-west of England and in Wales.         From the informa
 tion obtained by him, this Survey seemed to be exactly
 what would fulfil my wishes.          A little later Robert
 Chambers added some further particulars about the
 Geological Survey, telling me that he had been recently
 in Wales, where he met a party of the Survey officers at
 work.    Being the senior member of the company, he
 was voted into the chair at the dinner in the little inn
 where they were lodging.         He graphically described
to me how he had to carve a leg of Welsh mutton, and
how, long before those last served had made much way,
the earlier applicants were one after another pushing in
their plates for a further slice or two, so that at the end
of the repast there was little left of the joint but a bare
bone.     Their prodigious appetites seemed to be the
characteristic of the geologists that had most impressed
        "                                      " if
him.       So, my young friend," said he,           you join the
                                                      '
Survey you will have to add the qualities of a valiant
                '
trencher-man      to your other accomplishments."
    Not long after this conversation a more detailed and
satisfactory account of the Survey and its work was
given to me by the leader of the party whose healthy
appetites had astonished the author of the Vestiges of the
Natural History of Creation,     Reference has already been
made to A. C. Ramsay (p. 23).         This able geologist had
in the spring of 841, joined
                    1             the  staff of the Geological
Survey   under  De    La Beche, and  was  now Local Director.
In the month of August 1853 he was deputed by the
Director-General to proceed to Scotland for the purpose
of ascertaining whether the Ordnance maps, on the scale
of six inches to a mile, were sufficiently advanced to be
available for use by the Geological Survey, if that Survey
were now extended into Scotland.          He came to Edin
burgh, and through Dr. Wilson's kindness I was intro
duced to him.       After a short conversation he asked me
to take him over Arthur Seat, and explain its geological
structure.    We had a few hours on that interesting hill,
so well elucidated by Charles Maclaren.             During our
walk he gave a full account of the work of the Geological

32                  FIRST VISIT TO SKYE
Survey, and held out the hope that, should the work be
extended to Scotland, a post in the service might probably
be found for me.           Meanwhile he counselled the con
tinuation of my training.         Thus at last a ray of daylight
seemed to be let in on my future.
     It was therefore with a light heart and a determination
to work harder than ever, that a few weeks afterwards
I set out for the island of Skye, on the warm invitation of
the Rev. John Mackinnon, minister of the parish of
Strath, who thought that the geology of his district
would be found to be full of interest and not much
known.1        Macculloch's Western Isles and such other
published material as could be discovered were obtained.
The perusal of these authorities opened up a field of
geological investigation, in which it was obvious that
much fresh detail remained to be discovered by the next
comer ; and I started full of hope.
    The travelling arrangements throughout the West of
Scotland in the middle of last century would now be
considered primitive and inconvenient.             In no part of
the country has the march of improvement been more
marked during the last sixty-five years.           At the begin
ning of September 1853 I left Edinburgh in a train
which took four hours to reach Glasgow — a journey that
may now be accomplished in little more than one-fourth
of the time. Still more conspicuous has been the de
velopment of the facilities for travel along the western
coast and among the islands.               The steamboats that
plyed    between    Glasgow   and  Skye   formed  part of the fleet
which David Hutcheson was building up with great
enterprise and public spirit.            Few men ever better
deserved a public monument than this energetic ship
owner, for by him the West Highlands and Islands were
finally brought well within the pale of modern life and
intercourse.       The vessels then in use were powerful
craft, built to withstand the bufFetings of the Atlantic
waves round such headlands as the Mull of Cantyre and
   1  In my Scottish Reminiscences I have given some account of this
most worthy man and his family, and of my geological doings in Skye.

                "
                  LAD OF THE STONES "                                33
the Point of Ardnamurchan.                As they were the only
means by which goods could be brought to the islands,
or the island-produce could be carried to southern
markets,       they conveyed both cargo and passengers.
But the cargo was the more constant and important
part of the traffic, and except in the tourist season, the
passengers did not count for much.                    Besides all the
goods stowed away in the hold, the decks were often
crowded with cattle and sheep, leaving but scanty room
for travellers. Moreover, tedious delays would often
occur, for the vessels called at many different places to
discharge or take in cargo, and to transport live stock
from the islands to the mainland.            At these halting places
there were seldom any proper piers at which ships could
come alongside ; hence passengers had usually to be
landed in row-boats.            The delays at the places of call
might vary in length from a few minutes to several hours.
 It was therefore impossible to be certain at what time an
expected steamboat would arrive.                 These various in
conveniences have been greatly diminished, or even in
 some particulars entirely abolished, by the erection of
proper landing piers, and still more by the introduction
of swift steamers carrying only passengers and mails,
and keeping to a definite and published time-table.
      When I had got fairly to work in Skye, the sight of a
lad carrying a bag over his shoulder and a stout hammer
 in his hand, wherewith he chipped the rocks as he went
along, puzzled the natives of Strath.               My host told me
that he did not believe that a live geologist had been seen
 in his parish since the days of Macculloch, Sedgwick and
 Murchison,1 in the early decades of the century.                   The
 crofters came to know me by the name of Gille na Clach,
            "
 or the       Lad of the Stones."        As they watched me zig
zagging, aimlessly, as it seemed, over moor and mountain
side, they had, at least for a time, grave doubts of my
 sanity, though I seemed to be harmless.                      One day
 passing      some  cabins    on   the   shore   of   Loch    Slapin, I
    1
      Macculloch died in 1835 ;  Murchison lived till 1871, and Sedgwick
 till 1873.

34    FIRST PAPER TO LEARNED SOCIETY
halted to break off a fragment from a projecting rock by
the roadside.      As usual I looked at the chip with my
lens, and having satisfied myself as to the nature of the
rock, was resuming my walk, when I overheard two old
crones at their doors evidently speaking about me.           I
had acquired only a few words of Gaelic, but the last
emphatic remark, in which they both seemed to agree,
caught my ear.       On returning to the family circle at the
manse,    I was   not  surprised to learn that the expression
I had heard meant, " He is wrong in the head."
    Having greatly enjoyed my wanderings in Skye among
its kindly people, and having learnt some main facts
in the geology of the island, I returned to Edinburgh
in October, and reported to Hugh Miller my doings, and
more specially the general character of the collection, of
fossils which I had obtained from the Lias of Pabba.
He generously referred to my work in a paper which he
read at the Royal Physical Society in Edinburgh, and at
his invitation I exhibited the Pabba fossils and made a
short statement on the subject which was published in
the Proceedings of the Society for 1854.        This was my
first appearance before a learned society. The kindly
encouragement given to me on this occasion by Hugh
Miller was of signal service.        He proposed a vote of
thanks to the author of the communication
                                                 " of whom,"
             " if he
he added,            lived, more would assuredly be heard."
It may be imagined how a lad, still in his teens, would be
stimulated by such words coming from such a man.
    Some specially sad memories cling to my remembrance
of the year 1854. In the spring, war had been declared
both by Britain and France against Russia, and in the
summer, amidst much popular enthusiasm, we saw the
soldiers march off from Edinburgh Castle to embark at
Granton and Leith for the eastern Mediterranean.         The
next two years brought the tragedies of the Crimean
War.
    In the spring of the same year, Robert Jameson died.
For half a century he had held the professorship of
Natural History in the University of Edinburgh.         After

       ENTER EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY                            35
a  brief interval the vacancy was filled by the appointment
of Edward Forbes, to the great satisfaction of the natural
ists of the country, and to the glory of the University.
But the jubilation was soon and sadly ended. Forbes
had been much harassed before the appointment was
made, and had to hurry north to give the summer course
of lectures. But, as he said himself, the authorities, in
pressing him to enter on his duties at such short notice,
were killing the goose that laid the golden eggs.           After
a brief illness he died on the          nth of the following
November.        I heard him lecture, and looked forward to
the great advantage of studying under him.                 I was
privileged   to  be  introduced   to  him  by  his college-friend
George Wilson, and realised his wonderful personal
charm.     Little did one dream at that time that we were
so soon to lose him, that Dr. Wilson would be selected as
his biographer, but that in a few years he would die
before the memoir was half-written, and that I should be
entrusted with the task of continuing and completing it.
    Carrying out my determination to pursue literary
studies in addition to science, on 1st November, 1854,
I matriculated at the University of Edinburgh as a student
of Humanity, that     is,   Latin, under James Pillans, and of
Greek under John Stuart Blackie.              Pillans had been
teaching so long in Edinburgh, first as Rector of the
High School and then as Professor in the University,
that Robert Chambers used facetiously to divide man
                                                          " under
 kind into two sections — those who had been
         " and those who had not.
 Pillans                                  I      am glad to be
 included in the first division.        The professor had now
 reached his seventy-seventh year, and was therefore no
longer as fit as he had once been to control large gather
                                                a
 ing of raw lads, fresh from school in town and country.
 But no one who was willing to learn could fail to find
 much that was suggestive        inthe prelections of the veteran
 professor.     As  he  sat in  his  chair behind his desk, his
 small stature was not observable.           One only saw the
 round bald head, the rubicund cheeks, the mild blue
 eyes, the hand wielding large reading glass (for he would
                            a

36            PILLANS AND BLACKIE
never consent to wear spectacles), and the shoulders
wrapped round in his velvet-collared black gown.           He
was a true scholar, though more intent on the spirit and
style of his Latin favourites than on grammatical niceties
and various readings.      How he loved his Horace ! and
how readily he took to his heart any student in whom he
could detect the rudiments of the same affection !          It
was to this bond of sympathy that I owed his friendship
up to the close of his life.     Among the interruptions of
the work of the class by a handful of unruly lads, just
escaped from the subordination of school, it was impossible
not to admire the patience and dignity with which he
sought to restrain these ebullitions.      I felt keenly for
him,  and  was   led, out of sympathy,  to bestow even more
care upon the essays and papers which he prescribed,
than I might otherwise have given.          He kept up the
pleasant old custom of asking his students to breakfast,
and he continued these hospitable invitations to me after
I had passed through his class.
   John Stuart Blackie was a man of totally different
mould.     He had held the professorship of Greek for
only two years, having previously been occupant of the
Humanity chair in the University of Aberdeen.             Un
like the sedate and contemplative Pillans, Blackie was
nervous, excitable, voluble ; rapidly flashing from one
subject to another, gifted with a sense of humour that
relieved and half-excused some of his eccentricities.     His
well-modelled face was lit up with sparkling eyes that
seemed always alert.       At this time he wore a brown
wig, which   a  few years later he discarded, so as to allow
his long scanty, grey locks to       fly about, whereby he
became     much more picturesque.          His slim figure
seemed to be all on wires, and was thus            a  faithful
index of the mental activity and versatility of the man.
His restlessness of mind was characteristically displayed
in the work of the class-room.       The subject for the day
might   bea   continuation   of the study of Herodotus, but
should any important event have been chronicled in the
morning papers, such as an incident in the Crimean War,

             SIR   WILLIAM HAMILTON                          37
or the resignation of the Aberdeen ministry, the excitable
Professor was tolerably certain to begin proceedings by
at least an allusion to it, not
                              if  more prolonged disquis
                                   a
ition.   Thus, to the great majority of his audience these
extraneous dissertations, which showed the man         his
                                                        in
raciest mood, were far more diverting than to plod
through the long account of Egypt and the Egyptians
given by Herodotus in the admirable second Book of
his History.    But to those who desired to advance in
the study of Greek these improvisations on modern
affairs, though often infinitely amusing, were no proper
substitute for what students had come to acquire, and        a
certain proportion of one's time had to be regarded as
lost, so far as Greek was concerned.    Milton's line used
to suggest itself—
         " The
               hungry sheep look up and are not fed."
I  confess to have been one of the dissatisfied sheep.
And   yet there was something so winning in the Professor's
ways, and often what he said was so true and so impressive
that forgave him then, and when in later years
    I                                              I  came to
know him intimately    in  the Edinburgh Senatus,    and  saw
much further into his nature, my transient student
displeasure gave place to affectionate regard.
    Itwas the custom of the students at the University to
"           "
   drop in    occasionally and listen to the prelections of
other professors than those whose classes they were
attending.    Following this custom,    Ibeheld Sir William
Hamilton, whom      I     had been taught to regard as
the most distinguished       philosopher of the day.     Too
feeble to lecture, he was wheeled into his class-room,
and his discourses were read for him          by an assistant
who sat at his side.    The impression made by his grave
pale face, massive brow and look of weariness remains
ineffaceably in my memory.          was his last session but
                                   It
one, for he died on 6th May, 1856.       Not less distinct   is
my recollection of the assistant who read the lectures —
a big-boned Celt, with look of strength and kindliness in
                        a
his large and strongly-marked features.      He had gained

38     CLASSICS AT EDINBURGH                   UNIVERSITY
high honours in philosophy, and eventually went to the
bar.    In later years I came to be intimately acquainted
with him as Alexander Nicolson, one of the most genial,
gifted and unsuccessful of the advocates who paced the
floor of the Parliament House.        He will be again referred
to in subsequent chapters.
    In February 1855, while in the full tide of classical
studies, I was seized with a violent attack of ulceration
of the throat which kept me away from college for six
weeks.     I had taken a high place both in the Humanity
and the Greek class.        Pillans had expressed his grati
fication with my papers, some of which, as I afterwards
learnt, he said were among the best he had ever
received.     My class-fellows, too, used to compliment
me upon my work, and before my illness the opinion
was currently expressed among them that I had every
chance of gaining the gold medal.           In Greek, too, my
position was a good one.         The professor had especially
praised my     translations into  English verse, on which he
inscribed in Greek that they were "not without the
Muses."
    When    I  returned to the College, the students were
hard at work preparing for examinations which were to
take place in a week or two.          Continued weakness pre
vented    me  from   being  able  to  recover lost ground.    It
was a bitter trial, but had to be borne, in the belief that
it had been sent for some wise though inscrutable purpose.
 I came out in the prize-list of both the Latin and Greek
class, but of course, not in the high place which might
otherwise have been gained.          Yet there were compensa
tions.    In announcing his prize-list Professor Blackie
took occasion to allude to my illness, and to assure the
class that had I been well I should doubtless have taken
a very high place.      The venerable professor of Humanity
was not less consolatory.       He had given out a voluntary
 task, as what he called an ultimus labor, to conclude our
work under him.          Each student might choose his own
 subject.    As I loved and respected the old man, I
 devoted myself, heart and soul, to leave with him as

                THE LOVE OF HORACE                               39
finished a composition as I could prepare.                I selected
Horace's exquisite Ode, Aequam memento rebus in arduis
Servare mentem, and translated it into an appropriate
English metre, adding a large number of parallel passages
from Latin, Greek and English poets.                     When the
Professor announced that he had received several ultimi
labores, he dwelt especially on mine, remarking that he
was so much pleased with         it, and with the spirit which
dictated  it, that he intended to present me with an extra
prize.     He   thereafter asked me to come and breakfast
with him, and he then gave me            a  special mark of his
regard.     He told me of John Brown Patterson, who had
been his pupil in the Rector's class at the High School,
where, as Dux of the school, he         in  1820 carried off the
 medals both in Latin and Greek.             This distinguished
scholar passed from the High School together with the
 Rector to the University, the Rector having been elected
 Professor of Latin.        Patterson was the most brilliant
 classic the Professor had ever had, and         I   was shown an
 interleaved copy of Horace into which he had inserted
a   large number of parallel passages from Latin, Greek
 and English poets.       This precious volume Pillans placed
in   my hands on loan, with permission to transfer any or
 all of the passages quoted.       I    had  a  fitting edition of
 Horace interleaved, and transcribed into every quotation
                                                 it
 which seemed to me apt and memorable — book that for a
 many years was my constant companion, and in the poet's
                  " laborum dulce lenimen
 own words,                                         medicumque."
 This was the beginning of friendship with the Professor
                               a
 which increased     in  intimacy as years passed, up to his
 death in 1864.
     When the College session ended       I   had the reputation
 of being one of    the best  classical  scholars  of my year and
 best writer of English prose and verse among my
 class-fellows.  I    naturally looked forward to         a   further
 successful career at the University.          But    a  wholly un
 looked-for catastrophe put an abrupt end to my day
 dreams. Through the delinquency of                   a relative my
 father was suddenly called on to pay             a   large sum of

 4o            A FAMILY MISFORTUNE
 money. Keenly solicitous for my success in life, he never
 for a moment hinted that he could no longer support the
 expenses of my education ; but I soon saw that it would
 be with difficulty that he could do so without injury to
the rest of the family.   It was not in my power to make
enough by private tutoring to enable me to pay my way.
With a sad heart I resolved to relinquish my further
studies at the University, and find employment of some
kind until such time as an opening might present itself
into the Geological      Survey.    Cras ingens iterabimus
aequor.
    In my perplexity I went to consult my ever kind and
wise adviser, Dr. Wilson, as to what he thought should
now be done.      Before there was time to place my diffi
culties before him, he hastened to tell me that he had
heard that Professor Ramsay was soon to be in Edinburgh,
from whom he hoped to learn more as to the prospect of
entering the Geological Survey.       About the same time
Hugh Miller      called on my    father  to show him two
letters.  One of these was from Sir Roderick Murchison,
who in May of this year (1855) had been appointed
Director-General of the Geological Survey in succession
to the late Sir Henry De La Beche.       He lost no time in
looking into the matter of the extension of the Survey
to Scotland, and the chief purport of his letter was to
enquire whether Miller knew of any young man quali
fied to be appointed to a post in the Survey.          The
other letter was Miller's reply.      His original draft of
this letter came   into my possession after his death.   It
contained a warm recommendation of me, and a reference
to his published notice of my work in Skye.
    Not long afterwards Professor Ramsay came to
Scotland in connection with the continuation of the
geological survey of East Lothian, which he had himself
begun in the previous year.      At an interview with him
in Edinburgh I expressed my wish that if possible the
question of my appointment to the Survey might be
settled soon, as circumstances had recently arisen which
made this desirable for myself.      He was most friendly,

             MY PROSPECTS BRIGHTEN                             41
 explained to me more fully the duties required in the
 Survey ; set out its hardships and toil, and the slender
 pay which it offered.       I had a strong inward conviction
 that notwithstanding the drawbacks, so clearly laid before
 me, this service provided the course which was marked
 out for me.     It offered a practical training in geological
 observation such as could hardly be obtained in any
 other way ; and after all, it might be a stepping-stone to
 something higher, for which this training would be a
 valuable preparation.      So I told Professor Ramsay at the
 end of our interview that I believed myself able to endure
 the fatigues, if he thought me qualified for the work, and
 that I was willing to enter now.             Seeing this to be
 obviously my ardent desire, he informed me, to my great
joy, that I might consider my appointment certain ;
that it would only be a question of time, and probably
only a short time.       Meanwhile he was about to return
 to London, where he hoped to discuss the matter with
 Sir Roderick Murchison.
    I believed then, and looking back across      a vista of more
than three score years,    I  believe still that
              There's a Divinity that shapes our ends,
              Rough-hew them how we will.
    I recognise now, more clearly than I could see at the
time, how all the various influences around me had been
guided, as each unexpectedly but opportunely, and
without effort on my part, came successively into play.
The Religio Medici, of which George Wilson had given
 me a copy, was in those days one of my favourite books,
and I found there that Sir Thomas Browne had well
 expressed   my own conviction in his quaint words :
 " Nor can I relate the
                           history of my life, the occurrences
 of my days, the escapes of dangers, and hits of chance,
with a Bezo las Manos to fortune, or a bare gramercy to my
 good stars. . . .    Surely there are in every man's life
 certain rubs, doublings and wrenches, which pass a
 while under the effects of chance, but at the last, well
 examined, prove the mere hand of God."                  And he

42     INTERVIEW WITH MURCHISON
sums up his faith in the profound remark that
                                                         "
                                                     Nature
is the art of God."1
    After some anxious months, it was a pleasant change
and refreshment to revisit Skye, where I spent six weeks
among my kind friends at Kilbride and other parts of the
island.    I was able to add considerably to my knowledge
of   the geology of the ground, and to enhance my keen
enjoyment of the scenery.        Having now picked up a
little more Gaelic, I could often make out the gist of a
conversation in which, however, my limited vocabulary
prevented me from taking part.          From the hospitable
home at Kilbride I was franked on to one friendly house
hold after another.     It was at this time that I made my
first excursion to Scalpa and into the northern regions of
Skye, and had the experience narrated in Scottish Remin
iscences (pp. 399-406).
     From the West Highlands I returned in time to join
the British Association, which met at Glasgow.          The
 Geological Section, over which Murchison presided, was
attended by a large muster of geologists, most of whom
 I saw for the first time. There were present Sedgwick,
 Lyell, Hugh Miller, A. C. Ramsay, John Phillips, H. C.
 Sorby, Nicol, Harkness, and others of less note.   Murchi-
son's duties in the chair kept him so busy that Ramsay
could never fix for me the appointment with him which
he had promised, but he assured me that the Chief would
 not leave Scotland without seeing me, and would prob
ably be able to do so in Edinburgh.          In the Life of
Murchison (vol.  ii.    p.206)   Ihave given an account of
 the Geological Section at this meeting of the British
 Association, and of the discussion on Sutherland in which
 Murchison, Sedgwick, Hugh Miller and others took
 part.   After
             a    week or two       had the promised inter
                                    I
 view with Sir Roderick at his hotel in Edinburgh, where
 Ramsay introduced me to him.         He made     number of
                                                     a
 enquiries about my health and walking powers, affirming
 that to
       a   geologist his legs are of as much consequence as
 his head.     In the end he informed me that         might
                                                         I
                  1
                       Religio Medici, xvi., xvii.

        MY APPOINTMENT CONFIRMED                        43
consider myself appointed, and hold myself in readiness
to start for the field. Although earlier in this same year
the Order in Council had been issued requiring tests for
fitness in candidates for appointment to the Civil Service,
the arrangements for the creation of a Board and ex
aminers were still only in process of organisation.       I
appear to have been the last member of the staff appointed
in the old way. I never passed through the hands of
the Civil Service Commissioners.
    A few days after the interview with the Director-
General I was directed to leave in ten days for Pembroke,
there to join W. T. Aveline, who was revising the
maps of that district.    This order, however, was subse
quently altered by another which required me to join
H. H. Howell, who had begun work at Haddington.
Accordingly I reported myself there on 19th October,
 1855.

                          CHAPTER         III
       FIRST YEARS IN THE GEOLOGICAL                SURVEY
                             (1855-1860)
 At the outset of this narrative of the life led by a member
of the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom, it will
 be desirable to describe briefly the nature of the duties
which he had to perform.           These consisted of two main
 parts, I. field-work, and II. indoor-work.
   I. The field-work included the following out-of-door
occupations : (1) To trace on the ground the outcrops
of the various rocks, and to insert them in pencil on the
sheets of the Ordnance            Survey.     These sheets thus
became geological maps, and the process of so converting
                       "
them was termed           mapping." The maps being on so
large  a  scale  as six  inches  to the mile, there was usually
room upon them for the insertion, not only of much detail
in the lines traced, but also of tolerably full descriptive
notes of the characters and more important exposures of
the rocks.      (2) To record in a note-book more detailed
observations for which sufficient space could not be found
on the maps, together with drawings of actually visible
sections, whether natural or artificial, especially if con
taining material that would be required for any future
printed account of the geology of the ground.             (3) To
arrange   the  work   of  the  Collector,  by noting the sections
to be searched for fossils and those from which rock
specimens should be obtained ; in many cases also to
accompany the Collector to the rocks in situ and start him
in his work.
   II. The indoor-work chiefly consisted in inking-in and
                                  44

            NATURE OF SURVEY WORK                            45
colouring the field-maps, and writing out more fully the
descriptive notes made on the ground.               This duty
required to be attended to from day to day, so that the
pencilling on the maps might not become rubbed and
indistinct, but in a spell of fine weather it was
apt to accumulate.       It then formed occupation for the
first wet day, when field-work was impracticable.            In
course of time, as explanatory memoirs and other office
work became necessary, they were generally relegated
to the winter months.
    The whole work of the Survey was thus primarily a
scientific investigation.      Its immediate economic or
industrial value was not in those days sufficiently insisted
upon by the higher authorities on the staff.          The most
important economic service rendered by the Survey
at that time lay in the careful mapping of the coal-fields and
other mining tracts of ground.          It was left to the indi
vidual officer to detect and make note of any material which
might be of economic use.           An instance of this kind
occurred in my own experience.         In mapping the western
part   of  Midlothian   and  the  eastern  part of Linlithgow
shire or West Lothian I traced certain bands of black shale
which appeared to occur on definite horizons in the lower
division of the Carboniferous series.          They had never
apparently been worked for any purpose, though some of
them were so bituminous as to be easily kindled into
                                                         "
flame.     Mr. James Young, afterwards known as Para
ffin Young," consulted me as to the extent of these shales,
and accompanied me on the ground.            I was able to show
him many localities where their outcrop could be seen, and
 to indicate to him roughly the area under which they
extended.      He did not say anything about the purport
of his enquiry. But in a short while, having secured the
 right to work these and other shales over a considerable
 tract of ground, he began active operations for the extrac
 tion of mineral oil from them.          He thus founded the
 oil-shale industry  of Scotland  from   which  so much wealth
 has since been obtained.
     In the middle of last century the large-scale Ordnance

46     FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
sheets had only been begun to be prepared        for publication,
and in Scotland   were   available  for but  a  small  part of the
country.     Consequently, as it had been determined to
map the ground geologically on these sheets, areas in
which the Geological Survey could begin its work were
limited, and dependent on the progress of the Ordnance
department.      Such pressure had been brought to bear
on the Government to commence the geological mapping
of Scotland that it was decided not to wait for the com
pletely engraved and finished plates, but to begin at once
with those on which the topographical features had been
so far inserted as to make them available for the purpose
of the geologist.    Though the country was to be surveyed
on the six-inch scale, the geological work was intended to
be published only on the scale of one inch to the mile,
save where for industrial needs, such as coal-fields and
other mining tracts, the larger scale might be employed.
The Ordnance maps on the smaller scale of one inch to a
mile were in a still more backward state.           It was deter
mined that the first of these maps to be completed and
published should be that which contained the city of
 Edinburgh.
    An officer engaged    on the Geological Survey was con
                                         "
stantly assailed with the question,         How do you know
what lies below the surface of the ground ? Do you dig
                      "
or bore, or how ?         And the mystery of his methods
became still more perplexing when he was seen at work,
yet without any visible apparatus or implement.                He
carried a thin  leathern   portfolio  which    held  the requisite
 sheets of the Ordnance Survey cut down to a convenient
 size.   This portfolio or " map-case," suspended by a
 strap over the shoulder, hung behind him inside his coat,
 and could at any moment be swung round and opened.
 The hammer was slung on the left side in a sheath attached
 to a leather waist-belt from which, on the right side, there
 was also suspended a small leather case enclosing a pris
 matic compass, so that both hammer and compass were
 concealed    by the coat.      The clinometer, note-book,
 lens, and other small objects, such as pencils, rubber,

    GUESSES AS TO A GEOLOGIST'S                     WORK      47
 etc.,  went into the numerous pockets which formed a
 feature of the attire.      A man thus accoutred, as he
 traversed the country on foot, showed no visible indication
 of his calling ; and yet all his instruments, though out of
 sight, were at once available when required.
     During the first ten years of its existence the Geological
 Survey was a branch of the Board of Ordnance.                Its
 officers wore a dark blue official uniform.        But a tight-
 fitting, well-buttoned     frock coat could only be an
 inconvenient garment for the rough scrambling and
 climbing life of a field-geologist.      It was accordingly at
 once discarded when the Survey in 1845 was placed
 under the Office of Woods and Forests.             Each officer
 thenceforth chose the civilian garb that pleased him.
 When the military uniform was cast aside, and each
member of the staff dressed in any sort of suit he chose,
 the nature of his occupation formed a constant source of
wonderment to the rural populace.            Every member of
 the service could draw up a curious list of the guesses
which he found had been hazarded by the natives as to
what he was doing.         Thus, where knobs of rock pro
jected through pasture and the surveyor examined each
of them in turn, he necessarily displaced the sheep, and if
a farmer happened to be watching his proceedings the
geologist could not be surprised to be taken for a sheep-
dealer, and to be asked what price he would be willing to
give for the ewes he had been so carefully examining.
 If his mapping led him to the outskirts of a mining village
and compelled him to thread his way to and fro among
the houses, he was tolerably certain to be set down as a
new inspector of nuisances, and might even overhear
rude remarks about his visit.         The gamekeepers were
much at a loss what to make of him.           Instinctively they
were at first disposed to suspect him as a poacher of some
sort, though he seemed to carry no gun.            He learnt in
the end that it was always best, in a game district, to be on
good terms with the proprietors and farmers, and then
the keepers, instead of sinister suspicion, often gave him
valuable help in his traverses of the ground.

48    FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
    In recent   years  the  conditions of service in the
Geological Survey have been greatly improved in com
parison with what existed when I joined.        In those days
the Survey offered no attraction save to men passionately
fond of an open-air life, devoted to geology and to whom
rate of pay was a secondary consideration.       On entering
the service the assistant geologist obtained the modest
salary of seven shillings a day, amounting to £127 15s.
per annum.      A small additional grant of what was called
"           allowance
                      " was made
                                   for each night spent at an
   personal
inn. The strictest economy was enjoined. We were told
that the Travelling Vote annually granted by Parliament
was so small that only by the greatest carefulness could
it be made to cover our current expenses.            We were
expected not to hire vehicles in order to drive to and
from our ground, where this could possibly be avoided.
Consequently, when the distances to which the mapping
had been pushed from a station became so great as to
involve serious loss of time in walking to and from the
ground, we had to shift to some more central place.         It
was a further rule that where private lodgings could be
had, we should not incur the expense of living at inns or
hotels, save for the day or two that might be taken up in
changing from one station to another.        It will be under
stood that in many parts of the country lodgings were not
to be procured, and even when they could be got, they
were often far from comfortable.
    The hours during which an officer should be engaged
 in field-work were understood to be normally from
 9 o'clock in the morning, when he started out for the day,
until 6 o'clock in the evening, when he got back to his
 station.   But in practice and during the long days of
 summer, these nine hours were often exceeded ; while in
 winter and in wet weather, they were necessarily curtailed.
 Mapping was greatly dependent on the weather. In
 rain and in a high wind, it was usually difficult, sometimes
 impossible, to open out the maps.        It not infrequently
 happened that after a walk of some miles to the ground
 the weather became such as to prevent any satisfactory

         FIELD-GEOLOGY AND WEATHER                         49
work from being done with the maps.              By studying
the sky with care, and noticing its changes from hour to
hour, one became a practical meteorologist.           To the
geological surveyor gales of wind were almost greater
enemies than heavy rains. I remember an occasion when
on a breezy hill-top a map-case, incautiously opened, had
its precious contents dispersed far and wide.        But for
tunately, it being    a day of official inspection, with four
members of the staff present, we scattered in all direc
tions and succeeded in recovering every one of the pieces
of the map, none of them seriously damaged. An
umbrella permitted maps to be looked at, even in heavy
rain, if there was no wind.      But in our northern blasts
that artificial shelter was sometimes blown inside out.
     It may here be remarked that in the early years of the
Survey's progress in Scotland it was not found necessary
to suspend the work during the winter, unless the ground
 was covered with snow, and even then the interruption
seldom lasted more than a few days.         The time had not
yet come when the amount of indoor work accumulated
to such a degree as to make retirement into winter quarters
 necessary.    In my own case, I was able to carry on field
 work during the first five winters, with comparatively
 few and brief interruptions on account of the weather.
 It was not until the sixth winter that I was withdrawn
 to the head office in London for three months of indoor
 duty.
     Returning to my narrative, where it paused at the end
 of last chapter, I may remark that the task before my
 colleague and me was to continue the mapping which our
 Director, A. C. Ramsay, had begun in the previous year
 (1854).     From Dunbar as a centre he had examined the
 ground for some distance southward into the range of the
  Lammermuir Hills. We now had to continue his work,
 by tracing the boundaries of the rocks westwards between
  the coast on the one side and the Southern Uplands on the
 other.    In the course of four months we mapped a large
  tract of East Lothian, from the stations of Haddington,
  GifFord, East Linton, and Dunbar.

50    FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
    We were too short     a time at each of these places to be
able to make many acquaintances among the inhabitants
of East Lothian. Through the introduction of Dr.
George Wilson, however, I was received into the well-
                          " Browns of
known family of the                       Haddington," one of
whom was the brilliant Dr. Samuel, chemist and essayist.
This accomplished man of letters was then in feeble
health, and confined to his room, so that I did not see
him.     But I was greatly struck with his venerable
mother   — a typical Scottish lady of the old school, with a
quiet dignity of manner and a power of concise speech
which revealed a sound judgment. The younger ladies
of the household were much interested in spiritualistic
sittings, which had been taking place in Edinburgh under
the auspices of Dr. Gregory, Professor of Chemistry at
the University, Robert Chambers and others.                The
party   discussed    these   exhibitions,   manifestations  and
revelations, some of the speakers expressing a conviction
of their genuineness and importance, when the old lady
who had been quietly listening to the talk, but repressing
her opposition, rose from her seat at the luncheon-table
and put an abrupt end to the conversation by demanding
                                    " What man knoweth the
in the language of St. Paul,
things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him."
    Some of the little towns and villages in East Lothian
were in those days charmingly quiet, quaint and pictur
esque.    Haddington had its Abbey Kirk which, though
ruined, retained enough of its former glory to make good
                               "
its claim to the title of the    Lamp of Lothian," by which
it was known   in monastic times. And, on the other side,
came the prestige of the little town as the birthplace of
John Knox, who directly and indirectly was responsible
for the demolition of so much of the ecclesiastical archi
tecture of Scotland.      The little village of GifFord, at the
foot of the long chain of the Lammermuir Hills, had kept
its old church-tower, town-house and market-cross, and
was indelibly fixed in my memory as the hamlet with the
hostel wherein Marmion encounters the mysterious
Palmer in the third canto of Scott's poem. East Linton,

         THE DROPPING OF LUNCHEON                           51
too, with its antique bridge across the Tyne remains with
me as a pleasant recollection, and Dunbar, besides all the
quaintness familiar to me in boyhood, had now gained
a new and absorbing interest from the volcanic history
recorded in the rocks of its shores.
   A feature of these days in the field may here be men
tioned.    As there could be no regular meal between
breakfast and dinner, it was customary to carry a small
packet of sandwiches, a buttered roll or other light
refection, which could easily be carried in one of the
                                                 " ventre
coat-pockets.     Being of Juvenal's opinion              nihil
novi frugalius," I sometimes became so interested in the
mapping on which I was engaged that the little parcel
of food came back in the pocket unopened. Hence in
my case arose the practice of not taking luncheon — a
habit to which I have since adhered.
   By the end of January 1856 I was considered com
petent to carry on field-work by myself, and received
instructions   to make Edinburgh           my headquarters.
The general geological features around that centre were
already tolerably familiar to me, but I was now to work
out their details with the minuteness required by the
Survey system of mapping.         I had mastered the leading
principles of that system, so far at least as they were illus
trated by the rocks of East Lothian, and I felt that with
further practice I ought to be able to accomplish whatever
might be presented by a district in which I was at home.
   When I reluctantly gave up further attendance at the
University it was with the firm resolve to make up for
that serious loss, as far as was possible, by steady reading ;
especially in the subjects which would otherwise have
been my study there.       For several years after joining the
Survey I was in the habit of rising early enough to secure
an hour's reading before breakfast.          Then, after my
nine hours in the field, I set to work again with my books
after dinner, and was seldom in bed much before mid
night, and not infrequently until long after that hour.
I never before had realised, as I did now, the value of
                   "
what is called       spare time."     Remembering Bacon's

52    FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
                               " in studies, whatsoever a man
shrewd observation that
commandeth upon himself, let him set hours for it ;
but whatsoever is agreeable to his nature, let him take
no care for any set times ; for his thoughts will fly to it
of themselves \"1 I constructed a time-table, on which
each hour of the morning and evening had its assigned
piece of work.     Being alone and complete master of my
time, I was able to continue this practice until it was
found to require readjustment.         In this way I succeeded
in getting through    a large amount of reading. Science had
necessarily  the first   claim, and I tried to read widely not
only in my own department but in other branches more or
less connected with it.       But time was also found for atten
tion to literature.      I kept up Greek and Latin reading
(Horace was still a constant companion), and in the course
of years made myself familiar with some of the greater
writers in English literature from Chaucer to our own day,
devoting particular attention to the study of style.       Hav
ing a retentive memory, in which were stored long passages
from my favourite poets, I used to recite these plena voce
on the lonely moors, thus many a time, while starting a
lapwing or curlew, shortening, or at least enlivening,
my solitary way to or from the ground that was under
examination.
    I look back on this period of my life as perhaps the
most studious and certainly one of the most delightful
which I have been privileged to enjoy.          The field-work,
in the light of recent experience in mapping, was found
to be wonderfully fresh and new, for the ground had never
before been so minutely examined as the detail of the
Survey necessitated.         I was continually coming upon
unexpected new facts which enhanced my interest and
enthusiasm in the work.           It seemed sometimes hardly
credible that the rambles in the field, which had formerly
 been practicable only now and then as a holiday recreation,
had come to form actually the business of my every-day
life.   Constant exercise in the open air kept me in
 excellent health, and even after many miles of tramping
                    1
                      Essay of Nature in Men.

          A FOUR-FOOTED COMPANION                           53
over hill and dale in the course of a full day, the elasticity
of youth (Juventas et patrius vigor) enabled me to sit down
with undiminished zest to my books in the evening,
amidst the quiet of the country villages where I lodged.
It was there that I first fully appreciated the truth of
Milton's line " Solitude sometimes is best society."
    And yet I was not wholly without loving and devoted
companionship.      On one of my visits to Skye, my
friends there had presented me with a fine otter-terrier —
the most sagacious and affectionate four-footed creature
I have ever known. I have been all my life passionately
fond of animals, and this was the first dog I had ever pos
sessed as my own.      He seemed from the first to under
stand our relation to each other.      While he had a kindly
feeling towards every member of my family, and was
genial also to my friends, it was for myself that the full
wealth of his canine
                        " fidelitas "
                                       was reserved from the
beginning to the end. When the ground on which I
was at work offered no difficulty about game, he shared
my quarters in the country villages and was supremely
happy.     He became quite expert in recognising rock-
exposures at which he knew I would have to halt, and he
was never more in his element than in threading a ravine
with me, when he seemed to be keeping one eye on my
 movements and the other on the possible appearance of a
 rat or other living thing.      If in the evening, as he lay
 stretched on the hearth-rug, some sign of impatience
 escaped from me, as I read a book or wrote a letter, he
 would rise at once, put a paw on my knee and look up in
 my face with a wistful look of sympathy in his liquid eyes.
    The first year of service in the Geological Survey is
 one of probation.   By the close of that year I had mapped
 the ground on which the city of Edinburgh stands, to
 gether with part of the surrounding country.             The
 work received the approval of the Director, who went
 over some of it with me, and I was encouraged by being
 made a permanent member of the staff.
    Having now learnt the art of geological mapping, and
 having recognised its great practical value in geological

 54    FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
investigation, I resolved to make use of it on the ground
which I had in previous years been examining in Skye.
Several visits to the district of Strath had made me
acquainted with the general structure of that ground,
but obviously the knowledge would be enlarged and
made more exact by tracing the actual boundaries of the
various rocks upon a map.           No Ordnance maps of Skye
were then available, but the Admiralty chart included most
of the ground, and the map in Macculloch's work on
the Western Isles was also useful.           In the course of a few
weeks in the summer of 1856 I completed the survey of
the parish, and the writing of a paper descriptive of the
geology formed part of the occupation of leisure hours in
the following winter.          Macculloch's pioneer work in the
topographical geology of Scotland deserves the fullest
recognition.       It would probably have been more ap
preciated    in   his   lifetime, but for his great self-esteem
and his antagonism to the geologists who were rising
into fame ; some of them even venturing to examine the
rocks of Scotland and publish their observations thereon.
These men, who included Murchison and Sedgwick, he
                    "
stigmatised as         ignorant, superficial, vain and arrogant
intruders into the science."           He believed that he had
laid down the general distribution of the rocks of the
country on his map with sufficient detail and accuracy
to be the basis of any future re-survey, which, as he wrote,
" will not
              require a refined geologist to do. The rocks
are few, and it is easy to learn to recognise them ; there
is nothing which any man may not attain on this narrow
subject, with a few weeks of experience.               It will confer
no particular fame on any future self-constituted geolo
gist to have done what could have been effected by a
surveyor's drudge or a Scottish quarryman." 1                  Of the
   1
     Memoirs  to His Majesty's Treasury  respecting a Geological Survey
of Scotland, by  J. Macculloch, Esq.    London, Samuel Arrowsmith,
1836, pp. 17, 85.    These Memoirs in a pamphlet of 141 pages were
published after the Doctor's tragic death.      Had he lived he would
probably have toned down the harshness of his vituperation as the
MS. passed through the press. See Ami Bou6's opinion of Macculloch,
given on p. 151.

 A FIND OF FOSSILS IN PENTLAND HILLS                         $S
 true origin of the rocks, and the working out of the
 geological history of the earth from their evidence, he
 appears to have had but a feeble conception.
 fe While surveying the range of the Pentland Hills, to
 the south of Edinburgh, I was much interested to find
 that the custom still prevailed among the peasant popula
 tion of acting Allan Ramsay's pastoral play of The Gentle
 Shepherd in the midst of the very scenery which had
 inspired the poet.         The Scottish language of the dia
 logue    was    given by the rustic actors with full Doric
 breadth, and even sometimes with creditable dramatic
 power.      That the poem, which was published in 1725,
 should survive in the affections of the peasantry, is strong
 evidence of the force and fidelity of its picture of Scottish
 rural life.     Its survival in this form has probably kept
 much of the old Scots tongue still in use throughout the
 district.    Mr. Horatio F. Brown, proprietor of New
 Hall, the scene of the play, informed me in 1 9 1 3 that an
 occasional performance in the old vernacular still takes
 place.
    A   new interest in the valleys and ravines of the
 Pentland Hills arose when I had the good fortune to
 discover among them, underneath conglomerates and
massive sheets of lava of Old Red Sandstone age, a
group of shales crowded with fossils.            Some twenty
years     earlier Charles Maclaren had found a shell
(Orthoceras) there, but nothing further had been done
in searching the strata for more organic remains which
would determine their geological age.            I disinterred
a good many species            of brachiopods, lamellibranchs
and other fossils, well preserved and identical with
familiar organisms in the Upper Silurian part of the
Geological Record.           When subsequently the Survey
Collector was put on the ground he obtained a number
of additional species.
    Such a
               "
                  find
                        " as this
                                   gave special emphasis to a
thought    which     from  the beginning had often been in my
mind.      The work on which I was now engaged, and
to which I had dedicated my life, was not merely an

$6     FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
industrial employment ; the means of gaining a liveli
hood ; a pleasant occupation for mind and body.                   It often
wore to me an aspect infinitely higher and nobler.                  It was
in reality a methodical study of the works of the Creator
of the Universe, a deciphering of His legibly-written
record of some of the stages through which this part of
our planet passed in His hands before it was shaped into
its present form.          A few of the broader outlines of this
terrestrial history had been noted by previous observers
in the Lothians, but many other features still remained to
be recognised and interpreted, while the mass of compli
cated detail, so needful for an adequate comprehension
of the chronicle as a whole, was practically still unknown.
I felt like an explorer entering an untrodden land.
Every day the rocks were yielding to me the story of
their birth, and thus making fresh, and often deeply
interesting, additions to my stock of knowledge.1                  Lucre
tius, in a well-known passage of his great poem on
Nature, has given expression to the enthusiasm where
with a mind may be filled by the contemplation of a region
of philosophical thought which no human foot has yet
entered, and he warmly pictures the joy of the first
comer who approaches and drinks from springs which
no human lips have yet tasted.               It is true that the poet
confessed that he felt goaded onward by the sharp spur
of fame, and by the hope that from the new flowers of the
unexplored realm he would gather a splendid coronal,
such as had never yet graced the head of any mortal.                       I
had no such ambitious dreams, though I looked forward
to rising in my profession to something higher than the
"                                                            " of- Mac-
    surveyor's drudge or Scottish quarryman
culloch's sarcasm.           Meanwhile the discovery of new
facts in the ancient history of the land gave me in itself
an ample store of pleasure, augmented by the delight of
fitting them into each other and extracting from them the
  1
    Virgil's prayer is one which the geologist may literally appropriate :
                                              Sit mihi fas
                 Pandere res alta terra et caligine mersas.
                                                        JEneid, vi. 266.

              THE POETS AND SCIENCE                                               57
connected narrative which they had to reveal.   I re
member the indignation with which, about   this time,
in reading Cowper's poems, as I loved to do, I came
upon his ignorant and contemptuous denunciation of
astronomers, geologists and men of science in general
whose work in life was described as
                                          the toil
               Of dropping buckets into empty wells
               And growing old in drawing nothing up.1
More tolerable was Wordsworth's condescending de
scription of the geologist, going about with a pocket-
                      " luckless rock or
hammer, smiting the                      prominent stone,"
                           " some barbarous name "
classing  the splinter by                              and
                        himself
                                           "
hurrying on, thinking                                  and
                                                  enriched,          wealthier,
doubtless wiser than before."                 2
   Samuel Johnson is recorded by his biographer to have
                           " there is no
expressed his belief that                 profession to which
a man gives a very great proportion of his time.          It is
wonderful, when a calculation is made, how little the
mind is actually employed in the discharge of any
profession."
             *
                 Whether the active clergyman, lawyer
or medical man would subscribe to this statement may
be questioned.     But I found that the profession which
I had chosen demanded all the time and thought which I
could give to     both with body and mind.
                  it,
   The discovery of       large group of organic remains,
                                a
previously unknown to exist where         found them, might
                                                        I
have been made           by
                      anybody, and conferred no particular
credit on the finder.   But     made     profound impression
                                         it          a
on my mind, as its full meaning in the unravelling of the
geological history of the district gradually revealed itself.
I  lost no time in including         with an account of my
                                              it,
recent doings in Skye, in     letter to my kind friend Hugh
                                       a
Miller. His note in reply, from its interest         reference         in
to his own field-observations, which he never lived to
publish, may be inserted here.
       1
           The. Task,   iii.   150, 197.
                                                    *
                                                        Excursion,    book iii.
       *
           Boswell's Life      of   Johnson, April, 1775.

58   FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
                  Wednesday evening 9th October, 1856
   My dear Sir
            Could you drop in upon me on the evening of
Saturday first, and share in a quiet cup of tea.            I am
delighted to hear that you have succeeded in reading off
the Liassic deposits of Skye, and shall have much pleasure
in being made acquainted with the result of your labours.
Like you, I want greatly a good work on the English
Lias, but know not that there is any such. My ex
plorations this season have been chiefly in the Pleistocene
and the Old Red.          I have now got Boreal shells in the
very middle of Scotland, about equally removed from the
eastern and western seas.         But the details of our re
spective explorations we shall discuss at our meeting.
                               Yours ever
                                            Hugh Miller.
   Having been fortunately able to accept this invitation,
I spent a couple of hours with him in his home at Porto-
bello.    He was interested in the discovery of so large
a series of well-preserved fossils in the basement rocks of
the Pentland    Hills, and not less pleased with the details
of my work in Skye. He had spread out on the table
his trophy of northern shells, which enabled him to
affirm that, at a late date in geological time, Scotland was
cut in two by a sea-strait that connected the firths of
Forth and Clyde.           He had found marine shells at
Buchlyvie in Stirlingshire, on the low ground between
the two estuaries.       Finding me not quite clear as to the
precise  location   of  Buchlyvie, he burst out triumphantly
with the lines which Scott puts at the head of the im
mortal chapter of Rob Roy wherein are told the adventures
at the Clachan of Aberfoyle :
             Baron 0' Buchlyvie,
             May the foul fiend drive ye,
             And a' to pieces rive ye,
             For building sic a toun,
    Where there's neither horse-meat, nor man's meat, nor a chair
                 to sit doun.

               DEATH OF HUGH MILLER                           59
   Two months later I had another memorable evening
with him, and had then the opportunity of showing him
the maps of the Geological Survey of Midlothian, as far
as the work had gone.          He was especially struck by the
details of the large-scale map of Arthur Seat, and the
volcanic history to which they pointed.         Having realised
the successive phases of this record, he with characteristic
rapidity passed from the details which I had given him
to the sequence of events in the life of the volcano, and
turning to his daughter, who with his wife was sitting
                                  "
near, he exclaimed to her,          There, Harriet, is material
for such an essay as has been prescribed to you at
school."       Then in a few graphic sentences he drew a
picture of what he believed to have been the history of the
eruptions.
   It was my last interview with this great man. Next
week the country was startled to hear that he had been
found dead in his bath-room, with a pistol lying by his
side.     To me the shock was overwhelming.            Before I
knew him personally, his writings had filled me with
admiration of his genius, and I looked up to him with the
enthusiastic veneration of ardent boyhood.            But after
my    first  introduction  to him,  he  had  by so many kindly
acts shown his warm interest in my welfare that he had
completely gained my affection.           I had been with him
only   six  days  before his death, and  had found him as lively
and friendly as ever.        This sudden bereavement was the
deepest sorrow I had yet known.             On the day of the
funeral at the Grange Cemetery in Edinburgh, I saw the
remains of my friend laid to rest next to the grave of
Thomas Chalmers — two of the most illustrious Scotsmen
of my time.
   Mrs. Miller, whose love of literature was the first
link that connected her with her future husband, the
stone-mason of Cromarty, lost no time in collecting his
essays and lectures, and publishing them in a succession
of volumes.        In this pious duty she asked me to assist
her.     The little help I was competent to give was will
ingly rendered in grateful remembrance of her husband's

60     FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
kindness.1      Years afterwards,          when the centenary of
Hugh Miller        was     celebrated at Cromarty in 1902, an
ampler opportunity came to me to acknowledge my
admiration for his genius, my gratitude for his invaluable
aid as a friend, and my life-long indebtedness to his
example.
    With Edinburgh           as  headquarters, it was pleasant to
be able to see Professor Pillans from time to time.                 He
continued to interest himself in my progress and to
invite me to lunch or dine with him.                 As a confirmed
laudator temporis acti, he hoped that my scientific pursuits
would not extinguish my love of the Latin classics.                    I
remember one conversation with him in which he told
                                                             "
me that in his opinion the taste for what he called            elegant
literature
              " had gone down.
                                           "  Men nowadays," said
      " care       for   three         —
he,           only              things     money-making, mechani
cal inventions and spasmodic poetry.                 I have been all
my life fond of poetry, and I find solace in it still.            But I
must go back several generations for what really interests
and pleases me.          There is Tennyson, and another writer,
Browning, that I hear people raving about. I have tried
to read them, but I confess I cannot understand much
of them, and they give me no real pleasure.                   When I
want to enjoy English verse, I go back to the master
 pieces of Dryden and Pope."
                                       2
     On another occasion I had an interesting talk with him
on his experiences as an educational reformer, especially
 in the management of infant schools.                  He had ener
getically    combated      the  system   of  teaching by rote, and of
 compelling young children to burden their memories
                                       "
with genealogies and dates.               I was at an infant-school,"
                    "
 he remarked,          and you won't guess what question I
heard put to a class of little tots, not more than four or
 five years old — How long did Jeroboam reign over
                       '
 Israel?'"
    1 Her
           acknowledgment of this assistance recalled his generous
 forecast, and she stated her belief that he looked upon me " as the
 individual who would most probably be his successor as an exponent
 of Scottish geology."     Preface to The Sketch-book of Popular Geology .
    1
      Quoted in Scottish Reminiscences, pp. 174, 357.

         PILLANS AND LEONARD HORNER                      61
   Pillans was not without a vein of dry humour.     There
was, and still is in Edinburgh, an exceedingly pleasant
dining confraternity called the Royal Society Club, of
which he was a member, to which further reference will
be made in a later chapter.    Like its prototype in Lon
don, it was a convivial gathering, meant not only to
promote good-fellowship     among its members, but to
form a nucleus of attendance at the meetings of the
Royal Society of Edinburgh which were held at a later
hour of the same evening. Pillans would come to the
dinner, but avoided the meeting that followed it.       He
would say to those who rallied him on this procedure :
" I much
             enjoy the play (meaning the dinner) ; but I
can't stand the farce (F.R.S.) which comes after it."
   It was at one of the Professor's luncheon parties that
I first met his life-long Edinburgh associate, Leonard
Horner, who thenceforward became one of my kindest
and most helpful friends.    As will be told in later pages
of this narrative, when I first went to London for the
winter indoor-work of the Survey, he launched me into
the scientific world there.     Through him I became
intimately acquainted with his son-in-law, the illustrious
Sir Charles Lyell, and with other geologists resident in
the metropolis, and at various evening receptions he
introduced me to people of mark outside the ranks of
science.
   During the years 1856 to 1859 I was engaged in sur
veying the western half of the county of Midlothian and
the northern half of West Lothian up to the borders of
Stirlingshire.    To me the most novel and outstanding
feature of this region was the remarkable abundance of
the traces of former volcanic action which were revealed
as the mapping advanced.      Charles Maclaren, as already
mentioned, had published an excellent description of the
structure and history of the volcanic mass that forms
Arthur Seat, and of the nature and arrangement of the
ancient lavas of the Pentland Hills.     But I was wholly
 unprepared for the number of distinct volcanic vents that
 could be recognised, and for the evidence that a great

62     FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
deal   of the igneous material which had     been looked upon
as   intruded into the terrestrial    crust, like the classical
example in Salisbury Crags at Edinburgh, really flowed
out at the surface as streams of lava, or was ejected into the
air in the form of dust and loose fragments.        Moreover,
I found that it was possible to recognise a long succession
of eruptions, indicating the persistence of volcanic
activity in this part of Scotland for a protracted series of
ages.     The oldest lavas and tuffs in the region which I
had surveyed appeared to be those intercalated in the
Old Red Sandstone of the Pentland Hills. Another
younger and widely traceable series could be detected on
successive stratigraphical horizons, from near the base of
the Carboniferous formations up at least as far as the base
of the Millstone Grit. And later than all these were the
massive basaltic dykes which could be followed for miles,
with an east and west trend, cutting through the earlier
volcanic ejections.
    This mass of evidence was almost entirely new to
science, and the gathering of it formed one of the chief
sources of the enthusiasm with which the field-work
filled me.      I grew more and more engrossed by the
innumerable well-preserved details of ancient volcanic
action, and by the part played by the erupted material in
the building up of the framework of the Lothian land
scapes.     From these first beginnings of the study, the
wide subject of volcanism became of increasing interest.
It grew to hold the dominant place in my geological
enquiries, leading me ultimately to pursue it far and
wide over the whole of Scotland, and into every tract of
England, Wales and Ireland where relics of volcanic
history have been preserved.         The study further im
pelled   me   in later years to visit the volcanic regions of
Auvergne, the Eifel and Italy, and eventually to explore
the great lava-fields of Western America.            The spur
which drove me through all these wanderings was
unquestionably the enthusiasm for the subject first
kindled within me by the unravelling of the volcanic
history of my native county.

         VOLCANIC ACTION IN SCOTLAND                          63
     It was evident that in the geological history of the area
 of Central Scotland there had been at least two great
 periods of volcanic activity, each marked by its own
 distinctive features.      Further research might discover
 evidence of still older as well as of younger eruptions
 in the same area.       The possibility of the existence of
 traces of a vast chronological succession           of volcanic
 periods in Scotland as a whole, engaged my thoughts and
 directed my holiday excursions for ten years, until at the
 meeting of the British Association at Dundee in 1867,
 I was able to present the first attempt to offer a sketch of
volcanic history in Britain.
    One of the difficulties attendant on the study of this
history arose from the want of any convenient method
of determining the petrographical composition of the
 different varieties of volcanic rocks.     They had long been
 known by the vague epithet of the Trap rocks, a name
borrowed by us from abroad, where it was assigned to
 igneous masses that occur in sheets with stair-like
escarpments.       But they obviously comprised many kinds
of material, differing greatly from each other in composi
tion and internal structure.          Chemical analysis was a
lengthy and expensive method of discrimination, and quite
impracticable in the roving life of a field-geologist.      The
preparation     of thin  slices of   the rocks for  examination
under the microscope had not yet come into use.               In
my perplexity I appealed to my old acquaintance Pro
fessor Fleming, who, as a Wernerian and a mineralogist,
might possibly know of some method that would assist
me.      He replied that he had been in the habit of breaking
                   "       "
fresh pieces of trap          into smaller fragments which he
placed   in the  bowl of a  clay tobacco-pipe, and then thrust
ing the pipe into a brisk fire. The fragments were not
melted, but their component minerals could then be
more or less distinguished from each other.            He con
cluded in his pleasantly sarcastic manner by congratu
                                  "            " than he could
lating me on being better           up to trap
pretend to be. But I need not say that his process gave
me no real assistance,          A few years later, after the

64   FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
publication of Sorby's great paper, I was put in posses
sion of the true key to the solution of these petrographical
problems.
    Some of the little villages or towns of West Lothian
which were successively my headquarters during these
early years, like those of East Lothian already mentioned,
dwell pleasantly in my memory.        South Queensferry was
then   a quiet sleepy place, with  its Hawes Inn, much in
the same state as when Jonathan Oldbuck frequented           it,
the quaint main street, the primitive little harbour and the
tiny ferry steamboat that crossed so many times in the day
to the north side of the Firth.    The Provost at the time,
Robert     S.  Wyld, whose acquaintance      I   soon made,
proved to be one of the most genial and cultivated men       I
ever met, and our intercourse ripened into           a warm
friendship with him and his family.         Dalmeny Parish,
to which the house       in
                          which  I lived belonged, has in its
church one of the most beautiful and perfect relics of
Norman architecture in Scotland, and     I   used to be glad
to attend the Presbyterian Sunday service in so impressive
a   sanctuary.   Queensferry unhappily    is  now no longer
what  it   was then.     The Forth Bridge, the railway,
and many other modern innovations have destroyed its
antique quaintness and somnolent quietude.
    The town of Linlithgow was another charming resting-
place for some months.        The windows of my quarters
there looked over the Cross Square to the old Palace and
 St. Michael's Church, and the fall of the water from the
 grim sculptures of the central fountain made    a  perpetual
 soothing lullaby.    Here, as   inan appropriate setting,   I
read the poems      of Sir David Lyndsay of     the    Mount,
Lord Lyon King      at   Arms,                     almost
                                 and could sometimes
fancy the antique days back again. Among the old-
fashioned streets, imagination carried one three centuries
into the past   ;the noise of my hobnailed boots on the
stone pavement sounded like the clank of spurs           ;   I
seemed to be elbowing burghers in doublet and hose,
friars, heralds, pursuivants, rough soldiers, and fair
ladies in damask and satin, tripping to the Palace gate,

          GEOLOGY OF INNER HEBRIDES                            65
with page behind.         Lyndsay's panegyric seemed none
too high-sounding      :
          " Adew
                  Lithquo whose palice of plesance
            Micht be ane patrone in Portugal or France."
    During the months spent in West Lothian one of my
evening occupations was the preparation of an account
of the geology of Strath in Skye. Dr. Robert Christison,
when he heard of this paper being in progress, advised
me, if I intended to keep Edinburgh as my field, to read
my papers before the Royal Society of Edinburgh.               He
                                             "
offered to read them for me himself,           unless they were
very profound, in which case he would get a very pro
found geologist to read them."          His advice was sound,
and I acted on it as long as Edinburgh remained my
centre.     But in the present case there were cogent reasons
why     the  paper should be read before the Geological
Society of London ; and it was accordingly read there on
April 22, 1857. Professor Ramsay, who communicated
the paper, sent me a gratifying account of its reception at
the meeting, where Murchison, Lyell, Egerton, and
Leonard Horner were among the auditors.
    For several years after the publication of this paper,
visits to Skye and the neighbouring islands continued to
 be the occupation of my holiday weeks.                 Particular
attention was devoted to the island of Raasay, of which I
 carefully mapped the geology on the large Admiralty
 chart.    A considerable collection of fossils was also made
 from the various subdivisions of the Jurassic series and a
 detailed paper was intended to be written recording the
observations.      But the palaeontologist, to whom the
 fossils were sent for determination, delayed to examine
 them, and eventually died ; and the specimens were never
 recovered.     Thus to my great regret the proposed paper
 never was written.      But the weeks spent in Raasay remain
 in my memory as a bright and joyous time. The geology
 was full of novel interest, the weather exceptionally fine,
 and the landscapes in every direction singularly im
 pressive.    The effects of light and colour upon the lofty

66     FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
Skye mountains on the one side and upon the heights of
Applecross on the other, were such as I had never seen
before.     The sunsets were especially glorious, and owing
to the prolonged daylight of mid-summer their tints
seemed hardly to fade from the sky until they melted into
the hues of sunrise.      Trdly one realised the full meaning
of Juvenal's allusion to the short nights of Britain
(minima contentos nocte Britannos).             There was every
inducement to linger on the heights until long after
supper-time, and to return to the hospitable shelter of the
gamekeeper's cottage only when the shadows had begun to
deepen in the valleys.1
    The exuberance of my joy in the active and con
tinuous prosecution of geological investigation, alike on
official duty and holiday excursions, could not find
adequate vent in solitary country quarters.            It filled me
with an eager desire to interest others in a subject which,
though lying open to all, attracted comparatively so few,
but had completely fascinated myself.                 This effer
vescence of youthful enthusiasm led to the writing of a
little volume, with the title of The Story of a Boulder,
which was published .in 1858.           It met with a favourable
reception from the press, and eventually took the fancy of
Alexander Macmillan, who purchased the remaining
stock from Thomas Constable of Edinburgh, the original
publisher, and substituted a new title-page with the name
of his firm as its publishers.        It was never reprinted.
    The desire to share with others the deep joy which the
study of Nature had brought to myself, found ampler
vent in later years.      It formed one great source of the
pleasure   of  my professorial life in Edinburgh, when each
session brought a fresh band of eager youths to be for a
time my companions and fellow-workers in the study.
And it led to the production of a series of educational
works which, as will be told in a later Chapter, have
carried my message to thousands of readers in all parts
of the civilised world.
   1 Some
          incidents of my visits to Raasay and the north of Skye are
given in my Scottish Reminiscences, pp. 93, 227, 399.

          EDINBURGH GEOLOGICAL MAP                             67
     My   first visit to London after entering the public
service occupied two weeks in February 1859, and gave
me an opportunity of making the acquaintance of those of
my colleagues in the Survey who were then at the Jermyn
Street Museum, while through Leonard Horner and
 Sir Charles Lyell I saw a good deal of society in the short
time.    From this brief peep into the big world I returned
with renewed alacrity to the completion of the first or
 Edinburgh Sheet of the Geological Survey map of
 Scotland.     The portion of that sheet assigned to me was
 nearly finished south of the Firth of Forth, but it included
also that part of the county of Fife which projects south
ward at Inverkeithing and North Queensferry.                 This
strip of country had still to be surveyed, and in order to
 fit accurately into the sheet to the north, the geological
lines had to be prolonged for a mile or two beyond the
 boundary of the Edinburgh sheet.              It was my first
acquaintance with the geology of Fife, and furnished me
with many fresh and striking manifestations of volcanic
phenomena — a foretaste of the rich harvest which the
 county was afterwards to yield in the same field.         It was
also an interesting district from the character of its old
buildings and its historical associations, for it included
at the one end Dumfermline, with its noble Norman
abbey and the tomb of Robert the Bruce, and at the other
the quaint little burgh of Inverkeithing, with its curious
natural harbour.       Moreover, the islands in the Firth had
to be visited and mapped, from Inch Garvie, between the
two Queensferries, down to Inchkeith.            Thus the com
pletion   of  the  sheet  took  up  most  of the  earlier half of
the year.
    In another direction       the  progress of the mapping
brought     me back into     East Lothian, where some of the
boundary     lines  which   we  had run into the flanks of the
Lammermuir Hills required to be carried well to the
south, before the publication of the Haddington sheet
could be accomplished.          These tracts form part of the
range of the Southern Uplands, stretching across Scotland
from the North Sea at St. Abb's Head to the south

 68    FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
western coast of Ayrshire and Galloway — a lonely region
of smooth rounded green hills, traversed by many narrow
valleys, each with its clear river and scattered farms.
               The grace of forest charms decayed,
               And pastoral melancholy,
which Wordsworth so truthfully sang, greatly impressed
me at this first visit, and their fascination has lasted ever
since.   Lodging in the little hamlet of Longformacus, I
made the acquaintance of the Darlings of Priestlaw, of
whom I have elsewhere given some account.1                  With
no little interest I learnt from the elderly Miss Darling
that when she was a girl she had accompanied Sir James
Hall and Professor Playfair in their excursions up the
Fassney Water in the last decades of the eighteenth
century.    She said that she had seen no geologist since
then,  and would    fain hear something of what was thought
now about the history 01 the earth.            Besides possessing
the characteristic family charm, she was noted for having
collected and stored in her memory all the legends and
traditions of her native vale which she had been able to
recover.    We agreed to exchange wallets, I giving her
such information as I had been able to gather regarding
the geology of Lammermuir,            while she retailed to me
with graphic force a most interesting collection of tales
connected with the landscape before us, as we sat in her
garden at the farm of Priestlaw, and looked over to the
valley of the Whitadder and the heathy slopes beyond.
It was arranged that after I had taken a few weeks of
holiday, she should have a collection of stones brought up
from the river, in order that I might discourse to her from
them, while she on her part promised to continue her
stories and legends.         When the holiday was over I
returned to Priestlaw, but found, to my infinite regret,
that in the interval Miss Darling and one of her brothers
had been laid in the grave — martyrs to their generous
care of a poor tramp from whom they caught the fever
out of which they had nursed him.
                  1 Scottish Reminiscences, p. 206.

     BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT ABERDEEN                                 69
     Part of the holiday just referred to was devoted to
 attendance at the meeting of the British Association,
 held this year (1859) in Aberdeen.                Over the Geological
 Section Sir Charles Lyell presided, and there was a good
 company of geologists present, including Murchison,
 Daubeny, Nicol, Pengelly, and others.                    Pengelly read
 one of his earliest papers on the bone-bearing caves of the
 south coast.        Sir David Brewster created some astonish
 ment by communicating a paper on
                                                  " A Horse-shoe nail
 found in the Old Red Sandstone of Kingoodie."                  He was
 too grave a man of science to be capable of a joke against
 Section C.         The geologists kept their gravity with
 praiseworthy patience, but only the title of the paper was
 allowed to appear in the official Report of the meeting.
 It was on this occasion that I read my first paper on the
 subject that was engrossing so much of my time and
 thought — the chronology of the volcanic outbreaks in
 the geological history of Scotland.              Among the auditors
 was my old friend Professor Christison, who reported to
                "
 his son :— I had only time to hear the close of a paper
 by young Geikie,             and very warm commendations
 bestowed on it from all quarters." 1                I had noticed also
 among the audience Professor Blackie, standing against a
 wall not far from the platform, with his brown plaid
 wrapped round his shoulders, and his soft felt hat crushed
 between the hands that rested on his walking stick.
After the close of the discussion on my paper he came up
                                                 "
to me and abruptly put the question,                Weren't you in my
         "
class ?         On my answering in the affirmative, his next
                  "
words were          Well, come and dine with me."               Having
for so many years held the Chair of Humanity in the
Aberdeen University, he had many old friends and
acquaintances in the town, and it was with one of these
families that he was now a guest. When I was ushered
into the drawing-room next evening he came quickly
forward, took me round the neck and introduced me
with a little complimentary speech to every one of the
ladies in the room, none of whom had I ever met before.
             Life of Sir Robert Christison, vol. ii. p. 276.
           1

70   FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
I knew it was " pretty Fanny's way," but this first personal
experience of      although most kindly meant, was
                 it,                                       a
somewhat trying ordeal.
   The Prince Consort being its President this year, the
British Association was invited to Balmoral where Queen
Victoria was then in residence.    I remember with special
pleasure that on the top of the omnibus or stage-coach
which conveyed some of us up Deeside there was seated
next me the artist E. W. Cooke whose tongue and pencil
were wonderfully active during the whole of the excursion.
I had learnt greatly to admire his paintings, which seemed
to me to unite   a faithfulness of detail with   abreadth of
treatment such as few other of our living landscape
painters equalled.     Before the end of the day we laid
the foundation of an agreeable friendship which lasted
as long as he lived.    When  in after years I was much in
London, I    spent many happy hours at his picturesque
home on the south side of Hyde Park, and watched with
no little amusement the gradual growth of his collection of
grotesque and ludicrously impossible animals constructed
by  himself out of portions of shells, Crustacea, and other
organisms.    On our way to and from Balmoral he aston
ished me  by  his mastery of the pencil in sketching.   The
items of amusement arranged for the members of the
Association at the royal residence included Highland
games, and  a  muster of Highland clansmen in full military
attire, with bagpipes  in ample blast.   As the kilted ranks
deployed, Cooke was able to transfer them to his sketch
book with amazing rapidity, giving the impression of
number, as well as of the characteristic martial strut of the
men.     Another example of his rapid sketching power
was shown   in  his delineation of the great granite quarry
near Aberdeen, where, in honour of the Association,        a
huge mass of solid rock was brought down         byan abnor
mally large explosive charge.      He   drew the  scene  just
after the explosion, and with  a touch of his characteristic
humour, he represented the geological excursionists
clambering over the fallen debris in search of specimens
of the rock, some of them creeping towards inaccessible

            DEATH OF GEORGE WILSON                           71
crevices   like  so many    black  beetles.   This sketch    he
presented     to  Sir  Roderick     Murchison, from whose
possession it came into my hands.         As it stands on one
of the tables in my library it continually reminds me of
the artist and of my Chief.
    A  grievous loss befell me in the autumn of this year.
On 22nd November my ever constant friend, George
Wilson, died. His health, always frail, gave way some
what more rapidly towards the end, but seeing him now
much less frequently than when I lived in Edinburgh,
I did not realise that the end was so near. His character
was perhaps the most lovable I have ever known.
Though fighting with constant bodily suffering, he main
tained a brave cheerfulness and even buovancy of spirit
that were wonderful to see.       His truly Christian patience
and genuine goodness, his full-hearted sympathy that
would so often overflow into active helpfulness ; his
keen love of science, the clearness and grace with which
he discoursed on scientific subjects, and the singular
charm which he brought with him wherever he came,
were to me a memorable lesson.         His old college friend,
 Edward Forbes, who well knew his worth, used to speak
             "
of him as a splendid jewel in a shattered casket."          For
years he had been my most          intimate  friend.    To him
 more than to any other was I indebted for guidance and
 encouragement at the beginning of my career, when the
 future seemed so dark and uncertain.       As he watched my
 early progress   he  would  sometimes   say that a Professor
 ship of Geology was sure to be established in the Univer
 sity of Edinburgh, and that I must keep that chair in
 view as the goal for which I should prepare myself by
 assiduous devotion to the pursuit of science.
    The same month of November witnessed the most
 important event in the history of Natural Science during
 my time — the publication of Charles Darwin's Origin of
 Species.    Geologists in this country were perhaps some
 what slow in appreciating the bearings of this remarkable
 treatise on their own branch of science.        It taught them
 a new method of interpreting the crust of the earth and

72      FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL                  SURVEY
showed them that what they had presumed to be a fairly
continuous and complete record, was full of gaps, even
when these could not be detected by any visible strati-
graphical breaks.       I well remember the deep impression
made on my mind by the reading of his two chapters
           "                                        " and the
on the       Imperfection of the Geological Record
"
   Geological Succession of Organic Beings."        It was a
new revelation of the manner in which geological history
must be studied.
    The amount of Survey indoor-work had now accumu
lated to such an extent that time had to be found for it
in the winter by abandoning field-work for a while.       No
proper office had yet been provided in Edinburgh for the
Survey, though temporary accommodation had been
obtained in a building which was to be pulled down in
order to make way for the present Science and Art
Museum. The preparation of the maps for the engraver,
the duplication of the 6-inch field maps, and the writing
of the Memoir descriptive of the geology of the Edinburgh
district could be more conveniently done at the head office
in London.       Henceforth for some years I spent two or
more months of each winter in London.
    This change of winter quarters led to the growth of a
close friendship with Alexander Macmillan, whom, as
already stated, I first met in Edinburgh at the house of
George Wilson.        He had not yet settled in London, but
still lived at Cambridge.       It became an agreed arrange
ment between us that when winter brought me to London,
I should pass the Christmas recess at Cambridge, as a
member of his family circle.           Through him I made
many     friends both   at Cambridge and in London.      The
Cambridge visits were always full of interest, for my
host's circle of acquaintance among the University men
was extensive, and he launched me into it with all his
ardour.      Among interviews which more particularly
dwell in my memory one of the earliest and most memor
able was an unforgettable evening spent with Professor
Adam Sedgwick in his rooms at Trinity College.            He
happened to be in excellent spirits, and full of reminis

     ADAM SEDGWICK'S REMINISCENCES                            73
  cences of his early years.      Among his narratives there
  was one of a Cumberland picnic, which he gave with much
  humour.      The fore part of the day of the festival proved
 to be so wet that the luncheon, instead of being taken
 outside, was served in the house.      Somewhat later, as the
 rain ceased and the sky cleared, the company resolved to
 do something in the open air.      There had been some talk
 of an owl's nest in a tree near at hand, and Sedgwick, then
 a young man, proposed that they should pay a visit to the
 nest.   As he told the story, sitting in front of the fire with
 his feet on the fender, he struck his thigh with the palm
 of his right hand, exclaiming at the same time,
                                                      " I was a
 good deal suppler in the legs than I am now ; so pro
 posing to climb the tree and look after the owl, I asked
 if any of the young ladies would accompany me, but none
 of them volunteered for the ascent." He climbed the
 tree alone and found that sure enough there was a nest.
 The next proposal was to call at the abode of an old woman
                                         "
who was reputed to be a witch.             When we reached
her," said the Professor,
                             " she proved to be the veriest old
hag I had ever set eyes on.      Her dark skin, wrinkled and
shrivelled,   looked  like an old pack-saddle, and I actually
took out my pocket lens to have a better sight of it.       One
of the young ladies wished me to ask the woman how she
had lived in her youth to be able to attain such longevity.
Well, I put the question pretty much in the words of the
questioner, but the creature could not understand what
was asked ; whereupon I put it in good broad Cumber
land speech, to which she promptly replied in the same
         "
dialect,    O is that what the leddy wants to ken ; tell her
I married a tinker and lived for sixty years under the
           "
hedges !        And so the chat went on till late. I have
always regretted that I did not write down at the time
all that I could remember of it.        But it was a rare ex
perience    to  see  old  Sedgwick's face kindle and those
eagle eyes of his sparkle in the lamp-light as he recalled
his recollections of the past.     I do not think that much
geology entered into our talk.       No allusion was made to
Murchison or to the disagreement that had arisen between

74     FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
him and his old and intimate friend the Woodwardian
professor.
    In the course of holiday rambles in those years I had
made out a new and rather important feature in the
history of the Old Red Sandstone of at least the southern
half of Scotland.      I found the upper division of that
formation to be separated from the lower portions by a
                  "
strong break or unconformability," pointing to the lapse
of a long interval of time unrepresented in the region by
any intervening strata.      This observation formed the
subject of a short paper which I read to the Geological
Society on January 18th, 1860. But I had not forgotten
Dr. Christison's advice to make communications to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh.          Expanding the paper
which had been laid before the British Association at
Aberdeen, I presented it the same winter to that Society,
                        " On the
where, as a memoir                Chronology of the Trap-
rocks of Scotland," it was read for me by Robert
Chambers.       Though not free from errors, it was the first
attempt to arrange in sequence of time the different
volcanic periods in the geological history of Scotland.
The memoir appeared in vol. xxii. of the Society's
 Transactions.
    The death   of Professor George Wilson left the question
of his unfinished Life of Edward    Forbes to be considered.
His    sister, who was his executrix, wished that it should
be entrusted to me, but Mrs. Forbes and some of her
husband's friends naturally objected to place the task
in the hands of a young and untried man.         During the
correspondence which ensued I received an invitation
from Mr. Robert A. C. Godwin Austen to visit him at
 Chilworth, near Guildford, in Surrey.          One of the
ablest geologists of his time and one of the friends of
 Forbes, he had been entrusted with the task of completing
 and publishing some of that eminent naturalist's un
 finished manuscripts.     He had the reputation of being a
caustic critic and, as Ramsay told me, he had made some
 strictures on my Skye paper at the Geological Society.
 It was therefore with not a little trepidation that I went

           "LIFE"      OF EDWARD FORBES                     75
to him, at his picturesque old manor-house in Surrey. We
discussed the subject of the biography, and he proved most
friendly and sympathetic.        I parted from him with his
blessing, and every good wish for the success of my under
taking.      My colleague in the Survey, J. B. Jukes, also an
old associate of Forbes, withdrew his opposition, and it
was amicably arranged, about the middle of February
 1860, that the biography of the eminent naturalist should
remain in my hands.
    When the documents for the preparation of the work
were transmitted to me I found that Dr. Wilson had
brought the narrative only to the point at which Edward
Forbes abandoned the intention of making medicine his
profession, and resolved to devote himself to natural
history as his permanent vocation.        His student life had
been fully narrated, but the whole of his subsequent
public career remained untold.       It was therefore with no
little diffidence that I entered upon this interesting, but
obviously delicate and arduous labour.        So much encour
agement, however,       came  to  me  from  some   of Forbes's
friends, and my admiration of the man himself and of his
scientific achievements was so great that I ventured to
embark on the undertaking.         As I could not allow it to
 interfere with the active prosecution of the work of the
 Survey, either in the field or in the office, the biography,
which was begun early in March 1860, advanced at first
slowly and at irregular intervals, amid changes of abode,
and often at a distance from libraries.      But in little more
than a year it was completed, and was published in the
 middle of June 1861 as an octavo volume of nearly 600
 pages.     From the artistic point of view it was unfortunate
 that the early years of the naturalist had been treated at
 such length as to fill about a third part of the book ; but
 this part was so fully and admirably done that it must needs
 be published as the author had left it.       The rest of the
 biography had necessarily to be planned on a less volu
 minous scale.     The writing of it was to me a labour of
 love ; I thoroughly enjoyed it while it was in progress,
 and was sorry when it came to an end.

 76     FIRST YEARS IN GEOLOGICAL                         SURVEY
      My   field-work in 1860 lay chiefly in the west of Fife
 with Dunfermline as headquarters —a neighbourhood
 as full of interesting geology as it was of historical
 associations.     The old abbey and the ruins of the royal
 palace were favourite haunts of mine, and I often spent
 the week-end at Pitliver, an old-fashioned mansion in the
 neighbourhood, where at that time lived Allan Macon-
 ochie Welwood, formerly Professor of Scots Law in the
 University of Glasgow, and his wife, Lady Margaret
 Dalrymple, daughter of the Earl of Stair.              The retired
 professor possessed     a  wonderful   vivacity,   and  had a fund
 of anecdote of his legal and other experiences at home
and abroad.1
      The ground which could be mapped from this centre
 presented to me some novel features.                It included a
 portion of the Fife coal-field, and thus brought me for the
 first time in contact with underground operations and
mining-plans.        Its display of volcanic rocks was absorb
ingly fascinating, and from this time onward I learnt
more from the county of Fife than from any other part of
Scotland, regarding the details of volcanic action as
preserved in the terrestrial crust.         It was not, however,
until many years later that these details, accumulated in a
series of note-books, were arranged, and an account of the
volcanic eruptions in this part of Scotland during the
Carboniferous        period was published          in the official
Memoirs of the Geological Survey?
     In the summer of 1860, with a view to the publica
tion of the East Lothian sheets of the Survey, it was found
necessary to extend the mapping further south into
Berwickshire.       Being then within easy reach of the Cheviot
Hills, I took the opportunity of spending a couple of long
days in that region with my friend Dr. Paxton of Norham,
who knew a sheep-farmer of the type of Dandie Dinmont
in one of the valleys.          Our rambles took us through
    1 An account of one of his adventures    is given in my Scottish
Reminiscences, p. 169.
   1 " The
            Geology of Central and Western Fife and Kinross," 1900.
" The Geology of Eastern Fife,"
                                  1902.

       WITH MURCHISON IN HIGHLANDS                          77
Kirk Yetholm,    the headquarters of the gypsies in Scotland.
One had often come upon small encampments of this
wandering tribe, sometimes even in remote Highland
glens, where they usually looked ragged and unkempt,
and were regarded as little better than thieves and
vagabonds :
         Loud when they beg, dumb   only when they steal.
It was a surprise to see them at their chief centre, pre
sided over by their queen, by no means the haggard
tatterdemalions one had been used to meet.                The
characteristic gypsy features were here well shown —
olive-coloured skins, brilliant black eyes, dark hair and
frequently good looks.         Some of the young women
were pretty, and the men included a few handsome
fellows.
    From the prosecution of my ordinary surveying I was
most unexpectedly called off to the Highlands in the
autumn of the same year.        Sir Roderick Murchison was
at that time engaged in following up the conclusions which
he drew from Charles Peach's discovery of recognisable
Silurian [Cambrian] fossils in the limestones of north-west
Sutherland, and he now proposed to extend his application
of these conclusions to the central and southern High
lands.    He had already been accompanied by A. C.
Ramsay, with whose assistance he mapped the geology
of western Sutherland.      This year his former companion
suffered a serious breakdown in health, which necessi
tated an absence from duty for six months.                The
Director-General     now requested me to assist him in a
prolonged series of traverses through parts of the High
lands which he still had to visit.        The request was of
course a command.         But I was ill-equipped for work
among the crystalline schists, of which I had little
experience, and though it was a mark of his confidence
that he should select one of the youngest members of his
staff, I complied with some doubt as to my competence.
But the opportunity of seeing much new ground, both in
regard to geology and scenery, was a chance to be prized

 78     IN HIGHLANDS WITH MURCHISON
 and used ; and if I could succeed in being of real service
 to the Chief, it might prove a help to future progress.1
     The great review of troops by Queen Victoria at
 Edinburgh, in August 1860, led Sir Roderick at the last
 moment to change his plan of travel, and postpone the
 start for some days.       Having got as far as Glasgow before
 news of this change reached me, I returned to Edinburgh
 and was able to witness the magnificent review from the
 slopes of Arthur Seat.          On the 6th August I met my
 Chief at Greenock, and we sailed next day for Islay.
     Murchison's large circle of acquaintance enabled him
 to bespeak the hospitality of friends over a considerable
 part of the region which he intended to visit, where there
 were few or no inns.         Thus at the very beginning of the
journey we were received in the friendliest way by Mr.
 Ramsay of Kildalton, Islay, from whose commodious
house, embowered in masses of fuchsia, then in full
 bloom, I made my first acquaintance with the quartzite
mountains of this region.             The Chief was no longer
able for much climbing, though he could still take a long
walk on a level road ; hence I undertook all the obser
vations which required the ascent of rough and mountain
ous ground.        From Islay we crossed to the neighbouring
island of Jura, where Campbell of Jura entertained us.
This island proprietor was a born deer-stalker, and so
keen on the sport that he used to live, for a day or two at a
time, in one of the numerous caves on his western shore.
Five and thirty years after this time, on returning to Jura, I
was there told an anecdote of him.                 A party landed
from an English yacht, then at anchor in Loch Tarbert,
and in passing the mouth of a cave, noticed the laird
inside, whom they took to be a hermit, retired from the
vanities of this world.        Pitying his forlorn condition, and
the necessarily scanty supply of food which he could
scrape together in so wild a place, they kindly made up a
basket of provisions and sent it ashore for his sustenance.
Next morning before the anchor was weighed, a boat came
   1 More detailed allusions to this Tour will be found in my Life of
Murchison, vol. ii. pp. 229-239.

             GUESTS AT GLEN QUOICH                        79
alongside of the yacht, with a gamekeeper who brought a
haunch of venison with the thanks and compliments of
Campbell of Jura.
    The laird was good enough to give one of his keepers
to accompany me to the summit of one of the famous Paps
— a rough climb, but one long to be remembered on
account of the views from the top.       For the first time
I could see the whole range of the outer Hebrides
bounding the western horizon, while the southern half of
Scotland from Ben Lomond to the far uplands of Galloway
lay clearly defined, and the north coast of Ireland looked
wonderfully near.     But the most novel and astonishing
landscape was that displayed by the hills and glens which
lay at my feet in the heart of jura.    I shall never forget
the impression made on my mind by this first display of
the white quartz-rock of the Highlands.          I stood in
silent wonder for a while, tracing with the eye the clearly
marked lines of stratification along the sides of the glens,
and the singular contrast of the dark basalt-dykes climb
ing the cliffs from bottom to top. What a picture of the
effects of age-long waste — some of the oldest rocks of the
Highlands pierced by some of the newest, and all of them
carved out into the present rugged scenery I
   At Glen Quoich, the Highland home of Mr. Edward
Ellice, M.P., we dropped into a large house-party in
which one of the most interesting members was the father
of the host, well-known as " Bear Ellice," then in his
seventy-ninth year.    I had many pleasant talks with him,
the subject of them being not infrequently the virtues
of his daughter-in-law, our hostess.       It was touching
to watch his devotion to her, and she was evidently well
worthy of his affection.      One of the company was
Prosper MeVimée, whose chief occupation out of doors
seemed to be sketching the scenery in body-colour on
coarse brown paper.      He showed me some of his draw
ings, which filled me with surprise that so accomplished
a man of letters should spend his time in the production
of such crude and inartistic efforts to represent the
noble scenery around him.      Doubtless the employment

80    IN HIGHLANDS WITH MURCHISON
was at least    a           time from the turmoil of French
                    relief for   a
politics ;    but he might be  also making mental notes, not
only of      the scenery, but also of the company at Glen
Quoich,      and the manners and customs of modern life in
the Scottish   Highlands during the shooting season, to be
 embodied in some brilliant contribution to the Revue des
Deux Mondes.
    We made an excursion down Loch Hourne as far as
 Barrisdail — the grandest of the West Highland sea-lochs.
Barrisdail House, at which we called, brought up memories
of the '15 and '45, when Macdonald of Barrisdail played a
not inconspicuous part in that troubled time, suspected
of treachery to both sides. He was said to be the inventor
of a " racking machine," which he made use of to extort
                                  " in
confession from thieves, and            which one could not
live above one hour."      He was eventually seized and
imprisoned in Edinburgh Castle where, although con
demned to death by the Lords of Justiciary, he remained
                                                         " took
for some nine years, when he was liberated and
the oaths of allegiance and abjuration."       Mr. Ellice had
acquired the extensive estate of Glen Quoich not long
before our visit, and was making new roads through          it,
thereby laying bare many excellent sections of the rocks
of the district.  As these were the first fresh exposures of
the Highland schists which        had seen,
                                     I        I  studied them
with all the zeal of one who had everything to learn about
those ancient and puzzling parts of the earth's crust.
   At Inverinet, on Loch Duich, we spent three or four
days.    The district of Kintail having been the country
of Murchison's ancestors, he could not, in spite of the
paramount claims of its geology, resist the temptation
to revisit some of the places where Donald Murchison,
acting as factor on behalf of the Earl of Seaforth, collected
the rents, baffled the King's troops sent against him, and
carried the money to the Earl in France.        Standing on  a
knoll in  the Bealloch of Kintail, his left thumb thrust into
the arm-hole of his waistcoat          characteristic attitude)
                                         (a
and his right hand holding          stout walking-stick, Sir
                                     a
Roderick pointed out the leading features of interest,

              A CLERICAL YACHTSMAN                               81
historical and geological.        His face kindled with the old
martial fire as he went over some of the more famous deeds
of the '15. It was while this mood lasted that he asked
and obtained from the proprietor of the ground, leave to
choose a site for a monument to commemorate the exploits
of his illustrious kinsman. We went by boat on this
pious quest.      Creeping in and out among the little bays,
islets and promontories of Loch Duich, he fixed at last
upon a knoll of rock amid the heather and bracken,
whence we could look over to the ruined Eilan Donan
Castle, and away up into the mountains of Kintail and
Glenelg on one side, and across to the peaks and glens of
Skye on the other.          On that spot the monument was
afterwards raised, where it is seen by every vessel that
passes through these narrows.1
    Another reminiscence of this visit to Loch Duich occurs
to me as I write.         It was of consequence, in our rapid
 progress over the ground, to see the series of rocks exposed
along the opposite shore of Skye.             The parish minister
of Glenelg,    Mr.    Macrae, hearing of my wish to land on
 that coast-line, offered to bring his yacht to Inverinet and
 let me explore these shores to my heart's content.           I had
 met him at Kilbride, and knew him to be an accomplished
yachtsman, who almost lived on board his little vessel.
 Mr. Mathieson, our host at Inverinet, shook his head, and
 said that my goal would be sooner reached by driving to
 the coast and crossing by the ferry to Skye at Kyle Rhea.
 But the worthy minister was insistent.                Next morning
 his yacht duly appeared, and we started on our short
 cruise in the finest weather.         A slight breeze carried us
 gaily down the loch, but it soon fell away and, in spite of
 the clergyman's whistling incantations, would not come
 back.     Eventually the tide turned, and we slowly drifted
 back again to Inverinet, where we arrived just in time for
 dinner.
     From Loch Duich Sir Roderick's planned course led
 us north by Balmacarra, across Loch Carron to Jean-
 town and thence to Shieldag on Loch Torridon.                   On
               1
                 Life of R. I. Murchison, vol. ii. p. 232.
      A.G.                          F

 82    IN HIGHLANDS WITH MURCHISON
 boating to the head of that singularly picturesque sea-loch,
 we found that the carriage ordered from Kinlochewe had
 not come, and no conveyance could be had to carry us
 and our baggage on to Loch Maree. We had accordingly
 to walk the twelve miles through Glen Torridon to
 Kinlochewe Inn — a notable feat on the part of the Chief
 now in his sixty-eighth year. This walk was in some
 respects the most instructive I had ever enjoyed, for the
 glen abounded in admirably fresh glacier moraines,
 perched blocks, and a truly magnificent display of
mountain-structure on both sides of the long hollow.
 One mountain seemed to me more especially worthy of
close examination.          Starting accordingly next morning
alone, I had a long day of the keenest enjoyment.1         From
the highest peak I looked across a tumbled sea of moun
tains far away to the blue Atlantic and the faintly seen
range of the Outer Hebrides.                   But the geological
structure which had caught my eye from the bottom of
the valley proved to be far more remarkable than was
expected, for it showed the existence of great dislocations
by which the dull red sandstone and its overlying white
quartzite were thrown into inverted positions.             Little
did I know at the time that these fractures were only part
of a gigantic system of displacements, by which the whole
of the north-west Highlands have been so greatly affected
that the very bottom rocks have been thrust up from below,
and pushed for miles over some of the younger formations,
yet with a junction-line often so apparently normal and
undisturbed as to deceive even the most experienced
geologists.     Murchison, when I showed him the draw
ings  which   I  had made of the sections actually visible,
was rather nonplussed, but thought they were merely
local phenomena.
    Time passed so quickly on this day of exciting dis
covery that the shades of evening were beginning to
gather in the valleys before I reluctantly turned back.
A good many miles of a rough tract of mountains, glens,
rivers and bogs, across which there was no track, lay
                 1
                   Scottish  Reminiscences, p. 128.

          A SUNDAY AMONG THE HILLS                          83
between me and Kinlochewe.             Fortunately the moon
rose at last, and I arrived at our quarters towards midnight,
to find Sir Roderick in a condition of great uneasiness.
As hour passed after hour, he insisted with increasing
vehemence that some of the people of the inn should turn
out with lanterns to seek me.          But his remonstrances
                                         "
 met with only sullen indifference.         It was the Sabbath
                   "
day," they said,     the gentleman shouldn't have gone out
to walk on the Lord's Day."
   Two days later I procured a guide and walked across
the mountainous country from Loch Maree to Ullapool
on Loch Broom — a tramp of some thirty-two miles
through ground of the most varied and striking scenery
and full of geological interest.     But the key to the inter
pretation of the great geological problem of this region
had not yet been found, and like previous observers I
was deceived by the singular manner in which Nature had
concealed it.     In later years, after the secret had been
discovered, I went over all this region with my colleagues
in the Survey, whose admirable mapping allowed me to
see the ground with fresh eyes and redoubled enjoyment.
   My Chief parted from me for a few days, while I crossed
to Skye for the purpose partly of seeing the rocks in
Sleat which, in spite of the kindness of the minister of
Glenelg, I had not been able to visit, and partly of making
a brief stay at Kilbride, where Dr. Donald Mackinnon,
the eldest son of my former host, was now resident as
minister of the parish.         I rejoined Sir Roderick at
Balmacarra, where we took the steamer to Arisaig. Thence
we made the long traverse to Banavie, halting at frequent
intervals in order to look at the rocks on the way.      Driv
ing up Glen Coe we reached the Black Mount.               The
Marquess of Breadalbane, who received us there, took an
interest in mineralogy.     With great public spirit he kept
the mines at Tyndrum going, though they probably
hardly paid the expense of working them.            Murchison
had told him that the old gneiss of the north-west of
Scotland was often strongly hornblendic,            which the
younger gneisses of the Central Highlands were not ; but

84    IN HIGHLANDS WITH MURCHISON
the  Marquess assured the geologist that he had horn
blende on his property at no great distance.      We walked
to the place with our host, who showed          us what was
beyond question a hornblendic rock.
   Posting from Killin to Dalnacardoch, where there was
then no railway, we drove along the great Highland road
to Blair, where Sir Roderick wished to look at the classic
section of the rocks in Glen Tilt.       This noted glen was
only open to the public on certain days of the week, and
the day of our arrival happened not to be one of them.
But as time was now pressing, Murchison thought it best
to drive to Blair Castle and ask permission to enter.
When we reached the door, the Duke of Atholl and a
company of friends and gillies were standing there.       On
receiving Sir Roderick's card, the Duke came to the
carriage and insisted on our remaining over the night
with him. He sent down to the village for our luggage,
which had been deposited at one of the two hotels, and
allowed his head forester to accompany me wherever I liked
to go for the rest of the day.    I had thus an opportunity
of seeing the famous section in the channel of the Tilt,
and also some of the vast quartzite masses which tower
on either hand above the glen.       In the evening the Duke
appeared at Sir Roderick's room, somewhat dusty from a
long but happily successful search for a copy of the classic
memoir of Playfair and Lord Webb-Seymour on Glen
Tilt, which he knew was somewhere under his roof.
   This prolonged Highland tour ended at Edinburgh
on the evening of 1st October, and I returned to field-
work in Fife with my centre at Dunfermline. Looking
back     now from      the  experience gained in subse
quent years, I have to admit that this expedition
into the Highlands, though it obtained a number of
interesting details of geological structure, was a premature
attempt to solve problems which have not yet been all
solved, in spite of the amount of investigation which has
been given to the subject.         It led, indeed, to some
highly probable suggestions, such, for instance, as the
identification  of the quartzites of the Central and

RESULTS OF TOUR WITH MURCHISON                             85
South- Western Highlands with those of Sutherland, the
geological age of which had been established on solid
palasontological evidence.    But the true structure of the
Scottish Highlands was far too complicated to be un
ravelled by desultory and hasty traverses of the ground.
It required to be patiently worked out by detailed map
ping, such as has revealed the complicated grouping of
the rocks in Sutherland — a complication which had so
completely misled Murchison and his contemporaries.
   For myself, however, the expedition was an experience
of the utmost importance. Besides the invaluable
practice in field-observation among rocks that were new
to me, it gave me many impressive and memorable lessons
on Denudation, and laid the foundation of a clear
recognition of the stupendous part which surface-erosion
has played in the production of the present landscapes
of the country. Personally also it cemented the friend
ship which Murchison had extended to me, and which
was thenceforth to lead to so close and fruitful an intimacy.

                       CHAPTER IV
   LECTURING AT THE SCHOOL OF MINES.                  FIRST
       JOURNEYS      ABROAD.      DIRECTORATE      OF  GEO
       LOGICAL SURVEY OF SCOTLAND
                          (1860-1867)
For   the first few years the staff  of the Geological Survey
in Scotland numbered only two — my colleague, H. H.
Howell, and myself. To him was assigned the mapping
of the Midlothian and Fife coal-fields, and when this work,
in the course of a few years, was completed he was
recalled to the staff in England, whence he had been
transferred.     Thus for some time I remained the sole
representative of the Geological Survey in Scotland.      My
immediate duty was to extend the survey of the Lothians
southward into the counties of Berwick, Peebles and
Lanark, and westward into the borders of Stirlingshire.
Thereafter I was to cross the Firth of Forth into the west
of Fife. The variety of geological interest in these areas,
and the patient labour required for the detailed mapping
of them, made them an admirable training ground for a
field-geologist.    It was for me a piece of great good
fortune that my
                   "                  " were
                      prentice years         passed in such a
diversified region.
    The indoor-work referred to in the foregoing chapter
continued to increase, as the area of survey widened, and
the winter recess grew gradually longer.         There being
no adequate office for this work in Scotland, it continued
for several years to be done at the headquarters of the
Survey in London.         At these times Christmas always
found me with Alexander Macmillan and his family at
Cambridge.       The Christmas of 1860 was marked there
                               86

    CALL TO TAKE RAMSAY'S LECTURES                                   87
by the keenest frost I had ever experienced.                        The
thermometer was said to have gone down several degrees
below zero.        An odd result of this low temperature was
seen on the face of a College don whom I met in the street.
Every individual hair of his black beard was coated
round his mouth with a thin veneer of hoar-frost, so that,
           Fringed with a beard made white with other snows
          Than those of age,
he was partially converted into a venerable patriarch.
    My sojourn in London this winter was prolonged for
three months and a half by a wholly unexpected event.
Professor Ramsay's health gave way so much that he felt
unable for his course of lectures to the students at the
School of Mines, and he asked me to relieve him of them.
The lectures were to begin on 1 1 th February.                 As the
matter was only settled on 31st December, there remained
barely six weeks in which to prepare a full course of
systematic lectures.         The opportunity, however, was one
which obviously should not be declined, if the duty could
be satisfactorily performed.             It was an occasion to
"                                            " and
   grasp the skirts of happy chance            ;      although with
little experience in public speaking, having only given an
occasional lecture in country towns, I determined to avail
myself of it.        Professor Ramsay considerately placed his
lecture-notes at my disposal ; but I soon found it more
practicable, while keeping to his general scheme of
arrangement, to work out each section in my own way.
It was unfortunate that there were already on my hands a
number of undertakings, most of which could not be set
aside.1     The six weeks for preparation came to an end
   1 The
         subjoined list shows the various employments which filled
up the three and a half months spent by me in London during the
winter of  1 860-1 :
        Geology  of the Neighbourhood of Edinburgh, the first published
             volume of Memoirs of the Geological Survey of Scotland.
        Course of Systematic Lectures on Geology to the students at
             the School of Mines.
        Short course of Popular Lectures on Geology to Working-Men,
             at School of Mines.
        Conjoint paper with Sir R. Murchison on the Geology of the

88     LECTURING AT SCHOOL OF MINES
before much advance had been made.               The outlines of the
first few lectures were carefully worked out, but after these
                                   "
were exhausted, I was living from hand to mouth." Each
day's lecture had to be thought out, and notes for it to be
jotted down, in such odd intervals as could be snatched
for the purpose during the day, but very largely in the
 evening.      With the help of a pot of strong tea, I was often
able to continue my labour till two or three in the morning.
 It was a novel sensation to address an audience, most of
whom were busy all the time taking notes of what was
said.    At first some effort was needed to overcome one's
 nervousness, but I succeeded in the end, and was able to
complete the course, to my great relief.
    While preparing these rather detailed discourses to the
students, I was suddenly confronted with a request to give
the course of popular lectures to working-men which were
also delivered in the theatre of the School of Mines.
Professor Ramsay came to me on the morning of 4th
 February with a request to take his lecture that same
 evening.      I agreed to do so, and after office-hours took a
long   walk   to Chelsea to think over the subject and arrange
 it in my mind.         On entering the theatre and finding
 the place packed from floor to ceiling, many standing in
 the passages, all men and mostly young, I confess to
 have been somewhat nervous, and not to have succeeded
 as I wished, although the kindly audience frequently
 interrupted me with applause.          I was able to do better in
 the succeeding evenings.          The working-men were most
 attentive and intelligent, and it was always pleasant to
 remain at the end of the lecture, to hear and answer their
 questions.      In the following winter Professor Ramsay
             Highlands and Islands, giving an account of our work :
             Quarterly Journal of Geological Society, vol. xvii, 171-240.
        First Sketch of a new Geological Map of Scotland (in conjunc
             tion with Murchison) published by W. & A. K. Johnston.
        Life of Edward Forbes, completed in spring and published in
             June 1861.
        Articles in Good Words for January and February.
        Article in North British Review on Recent Discoveries in
             Scottish Geology.
        Occasional articles in Saturday Review.

                 AUVERGNE VISITED                           89
was able to. give his course    of systematic lectures to the
students ;   but I relieved him of part of his duties by
delivering   the popular lectures in the Jermyn Street
theatre on The First Principles of Geology.
   After so long a spell of indoor work in London, it was
a welcome relief to resume mapping in the field, across the
western half of Fife, from the Saline Hills on the west
to the heights of Burntisland on the east.        The volcanic
geology of that region had now become so extraordinarily
engrossing that I resolved to visit the area of Central
France, where, among a group of recent but extinct
volcanoes, which had been admirably described by
G. P. Scrope, I believed that light might be thrown on the
more ancient and partially buried Carboniferous volcanic
rocks of Scotland.     Of any well educated man it used to
be said that
           It would be great impeachment  to his age,
           In having known no travel in his youth.
But to a geologist travel is as the breath of his nostrils,
and can hardly be begun too soon.          The trip to France
would be my first visit to the Continent ; but if life lasted
it was my intention to take every opportunity that offered
to see other countries than my own, and thereby to widen
the experience that can be gained in the British Isles.
   At this time I had not met Mr. Scrope, but when he
heard from Mr. Leonard Horner of my intended excur
sion, he sent me a long letter, containing much information
that would be useful in Auvergne.           He also presented
me with a copy of his classic work      —  Geology and Extinct
Volcanoes of Central France, which was my constant hand
book on the ground.       Mr. Scrope was not only a skilled
observer in volcanic matters, but also one of the leaders
of the small company of geologists who saw and pro
claimed the potent influence of the agents of denudation
in shaping the landscapes of a country.       The letter which
he sent me on 16th June, 1861, was the beginning of a
correspondence that lasted as long as he lived.        Further
reference to him will be made under the year 1870.          As

  90        FIRST CONTINENTAL JOURNEY
 a fellow-traveller, also for the first time abroad, John
 Young, my old school-fellow, both at Mr. Black's semi
 nary and at the High School, was induced to accompany
 me.     Although our paths, in life had diverged, we both
 cherished the recollection of our early years, and never had
 lost sight of each other.         Having chosen medicine for his
 career,   he  had    graduated   M.D.   at the Edinburgh Univer
 sity, and was now in the practice of his profession at the
 Morningside Asylum, Edinburgh.                   But he had not
 found the medical career to be to his liking.               He used
 sometimes to accompany me in the Survey work in differ
 ent parts of the Lothians, and grew so much interested in
 the pursuit of natural science in an open-air life that he
 eventually applied for a post on the Geological Survey.
 In this application he was successful, and had received his
 appointment only a few months before our start for
 France.1
     A pleasant and instructive time was spent by us among
 the admirably well-preserved puys and lava-streams of
 Auvergne.          In a region where the volcanic energy was
 active in comparatively recent time, though probably
 far beyond the furthest dates of history, and where, there
 fore, the superficial features displayed by that energy
 had not yet been effaced by the influences of denudation,
 it was an experience 01 deep interest to a student of the
 far more ancient Scottish Carboniferous volcanoes, to see
 in this French area what was probably the general aspect
 of many of the little eruptive vents and their lava out
 flows in the basin of the Firth of Forth.           This experience
 served to vivify all my subsequent study of the volcanic
 geology of Scotland.          Another valuable influence of the
excursion came from the impressive evidence of the
potency of subaerial erosion in sculpturing the present
landscapes       of a country. The lesson taught by the
scenery of the Scottish Highlands was repeated here,
but with even greater clearness.             Nothing I had read in
geological       literature,   not    even   Scrope's own classic
   1 He left the
                  Survey in 1866 to become Professor of Natural History
in the University of Glasgow.

             LESSONS FROM AUVERGNE                                 91
descriptions and drawings of this very region, prepared
me for the contemplation of changes so stupendous as
those of the erosion of the ravines and opener valleys of
Le Puy. The long level lines of the undisturbed strati
fication, so plainly traceable everywhere, afforded a
measure by which the extent of the denudation since the
close of Tertiary time might be estimated.                Each new
landscape    that  met   the  eye,  as we  journeyed through the
region, enforced with fresh insistence the same lesson, and
 I left Auvergne more firmly persuaded than ever of the
cumulative energy of the seemingly feeble subaerial
agencies of waste.       These agencies are the sculpture tools
wherewith the scenery of a country has been slowly
carved out, during the vast lapse of time in which the work
has been in progress.          I returned to my native country
with fresh eyes and much acquired knowledge regarding
both the history of the surface of the land and the part
played on that surface by volcanic action.1
     From Auvergne Young and I made our way southward
to Marseilles, skirted the vast Etang de Berre, and crossed
the Rhone delta, halting at Arles and Nismes.                    The
enormous expanse of well-rounded shingle in the delta
gave another striking proof of the results of long-continued
subaerial waste, and of the transporting power of the
rivers, once doubtless greatly more voluminous than now,
which swept such coarse material across the plain to so
great a distance from the parent rocks.                The Roman
antiquities   at the  two  towns   on  the  delta were  duly visited
and admired.
     During these early years of Survey life two brief
holiday excursions, one to Ireland, the other to the Inner
Hebrides, had a lasting influence on the progress of my
volcanic studies.       In the spring of 1866 my colleague,
J. Jukes,
     B.         Director   of the Geological Survey of Ireland,
invited me to spend a week with him in Antrim, for the
purpose of examining the remarkable sections of the
   1 An account of the journey in Central France appeared in Francis
Galton's Vacation Tourists, 1861, which was reprinted in my Geological
Essays at Home and Abroad, 1882.

92     TERTIARY VOLCANIC HISTORY BEGUN
Tertiary eruptive rocks displayed along the northern
coast of that county.    After two pleasant days in Dublin
we made for Portrush, working our way thence along
the shore, by the Giant's Causeway and Cushendall, to
Belfast.    It was a short but instructive excursion, which
for the first time gave me detailed acquaintance with the
Tertiary basaltic plateaux of our islands, and I then deter
mined to lose no time in attacking the corresponding
rocks of the Inner Hebrides which Edward Forbes
thought were probably of Jurassic age (an error adopted
by me from him), but which I now felt tolerably certain
must belong to the same Tertiary volcanic episode as those
of Antrim.
    Accordingly the summer vacation of the same year was
devoted to a descent upon the island of Mull.           It was
more especially desirable to examine with care the locality
at Ardtun Head where lie the
                                  "
                                    leaf-beds," made known
by the Duke of Argyll, in which well-preserved remains of
Tertiary plants had been found.       Having an introduction
to the Duke of Argyll's Chamberlain, I received every
assistance, including the labour of two men to blast the
cliff, and lay bare a portion of the leaf-bearing zone,
together with a pony for my own use.
    I shall never forget the surprise and delight which
accompanied this little bit of simple exploration.           It
could be seen at a glance that the
                                     " leaf-beds " lie beneath
a vast pile of lava-sheets,    three or four thousand feet
thick, which rise, one above another, up to the summit of
Ben More (3185 feet).         The occurrence of Tertiary
plants at its base showed that this great accumulation of
volcanic material cannot be so old as Jurassic, but must
                                    "
certainly be younger than the          leaf-beds," which are
shown by their plants to be of older Tertiary age.
    It was my good fortune at this time to visit the southern
coast of Mull and to find beds of chalk-flints lying
beneath the basalt-cliffs — a further proof, if any were
needed, of the geological age of the volcanic eruptions.
But geology was not the only attraction of these interesting
shores.    At Carsaig I had a most friendly welcome from

          INVITATION FROM CASHMERE                               93
the Maclean of Pennycross, and formed with him and
his family a cordial intimacy, which lasted until gradually
broken up by death.
   Now and again into the daily routine of official life
there would come some unexpected message or other
communication from the outside world.                Thus in the
summer of 1861, while deeply immersed in the volcanic
geology of western Fife, I received, through Sir Roderick
Murchison, the offer of the post of Geologist to the
Maharajah of Cashmere, with a good salary, and outfit
and travelling        expenses    paid.   It required no long
consideration to decline this tempting proposal.              I had
no very definite plans in my mind as to what my future
would be or what I should strive to make it. Francis
Bacon, whose essays were favourite reading in those days,
                  "
had written — If a man look sharply and attentively, he
shall see Fortune ; for though she be blind, yet she is not
invisible." I cannot say that I saw the goddess at this
time, but I very clearly realised that the scene on which
I had to work lay in my own country.
       " Better
                fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay."
My letter to Murchison declining the offer, together
with the rest of my correspondence with him, came into
my hands after his death, and I found that in preserving
                                         " Geikie refuses to
it he had docketed it on the back,                             go to
Cashmir, salary £1000 per annum."
    In the spring of the same year the agreeable intimation
reached me that the Royal Society of Edinburgh had
elected me into its fellowship.          As this Society, vener
able among the scientific institutions of Scotland, counted
among its founders in the latter half of the eighteenth
century James Hutton and John Playfair, it was the
early home of geology north of the Tweed. If Edin
burgh was to be the centre of my future life, this Society
would play a not unimportant part in it.
    Another event, which came as a great surprise, was my
appointment to be Examiner in Geology to the University
of London — a post which necessitated one or two brief

 94       PROFESSOR PILLANS AS HOST
visits to London in the course of the year.      Such marks
 of recognition from the outside world are naturally
 prized by everyone, but by none more sincerely than by
 those whose lives are chiefly spent in quiet work in remote
 parts of the country.
    When the indoor winter work was done in Edinburgh,
or when, during the year, an occasional visit had to be
made to that city, I was able to keep in touch with old,
and to make there new, friends.       On one of these occa
sions in December 1861 I found my old preceptor,
Pillans, though in his eighty-third year, almost as fresh
as ever.    He was quite able to entertain a dinner-party
at which I had the gratification of meeting again the
venerable Charles Maclaren, one of the best of the
Scottish geologists of his day who, though he had long
ceased from the active prosecution of geology, kept up
his interest in the progress of the science.   In a pleasant
retreat, on the southern outskirts of Edinburgh, he passed
the last years of his life, where from time to time I spent
enjoyable hours in his company.       As an admirer of good
style he used to discuss this subject with me, giving
valuable hints as to what to avoid.     While in Edinburgh
at this time I accepted, for practice in public speaking,
some of the invitations which came to me to give popular
lectures on the subject of my favourite science, and
delivered two addresses before the Philosophical Institu
tion of Edinburgh.       It was on one of these occasional
visits to the Scottish capital that I had the pleasure of
listening to Jenny Lind for the only time.
    Although the geologists of the Survey had instructions
to map only the solid rocks under the superficial looser
                            "
accumulations known as the Drifts," it was not possible
to shut one's eyes to those later deposits, and to the extra
ordinary problems presented by them.        From the begin
ning of the life on the Survey, I had been noting, on the
maps and in my note-books, many of the features of these
deposits, but in the year 1861 I deliberately set myself to
undertake a serious study of them, with the view of trying
to make out the history of the events of which they are the

        FIRST STUDIES OF THE "DRIFT"                        95
record.    They were commonly regarded as various
marine sediments, spread over the country when it was
submerged under a sea on which icebergs and rafts of
floating ice transported rock-debris from northern lands.
I was led independently first to doubt and finally to dis
card this generally accepted explanation.       The more one
studied the smoothed and striated rock-surfaces which
                             "
lie immediately below the      Drift," and noted the varying
characters    of the boulder-clay which rests on these
surfaces, one became the more convinced that the pheno
mena could not all be accounted for by floating ice, but
demanded the former existence of a great terrestrial ice-
sheet or sheets, as Agassiz had insisted, twenty years
before.    My note-books were full of sections and local
details from all the areas which I had mapped.        In 1862
I spent my summer holiday in traversing the southern
counties of Scotland for the special purpose of studying
     "
the    Drift," and the ice-moulded rocks beneath      it,as far
as these can be seen in that region.    I    remember that at
this time
        I    was guided to  a  fine recently-exposed section
of boulder-clay on the Slitrig Water by Mr.        J.   H. A.
Murray, who was then        a schoolmaster   in  Hawick, and
afterwards rose to fame and knighthood as Editor of the
Oxford English Dictionary. This excursion took me into
hitherto unvisited parts of the country.         For the first
time wandered on foot down Liddesdale, Border ballads
    I
on my lips, and with eyes on the outlook, not only for
sections of
             " Drift," but also for
                                     every old Border peel or
tower within sight or reach.      The Solway shores seemed
not unfamiliar to one who remembered the pages of
Redgauntlet.     The Kirkcudbright coast, with its rocky
headlands and little bays, brought to one's recollection
scenes in Guy Mannering.         Walking up Nithsdale and
diverging into its side valleys in  search of fresh geological
sections,
        I    found that Walter Scott had waved his magi
cian's wand over that vale too, where the deep and narrow
ravine of Crichope Linn will to all time be associated
with Balfour of Burley   in  Old Mortality.
   Crossing Ayrshire   in  continuation of this quest of the

96          ESSAY ON GLACIAL DRIFT
Glacial Drift, I passed over into Bute, where I had arranged
to spend the winter months, clearing off indoor work of
the Survey, and taking an occasional excursion along the
Kyles and to the sea-lochs, under the guidance of my
much esteemed friend the Rev. Alexander Macbride,
Free Church minister of North Bute.         One of the most
modest of glacialists, he had never published his observa
tions — yet for years past he had been scouring not only
the shores of Bute, but those of Argyllshire, and had
discovered many new places where the Arctic shell-
beds have been preserved.       He conducted me to some of
                 "
his numerous       finds," and thus enabled me to collect
much of the local detail which, together with the many
observations made in the course of years in the work of
the Survey, and the conclusions founded on them, was
                               " On the
embodied in my memoir                     phenomena of the
Glacial Drift of Scotland."      This essay formed a volume
in the Transactions of the Geological Society of Glasgow,
published in April 1863.        It contained, I believe, the
first attempt to present a connected view of the sequence
of events in the history of Scotland during what is known
as the Glacial Period or Ice-Age.       It collected evidence
to show that the boulder-clay was mainly the product of
the action of land-ice, and not of drifting bergs or floes.
And it brought forward, for the first time, proofs that the
 Ice-Age included intervals when some parts of the country,
up to heights of 800 or 900 feet above the present sea-
 level, were free of ice and clothed with vegetation.
    At the time of my wintering in Bute, one of the most
 familiar of the vessels afloat on the Firth of Clyde and in
 Rothesay Bay was the little sailing yacht of the veteran
 James Smith of Jordanhill, known to the world at large
 as the author of an admirable volume on the Voyage and
 Shipwreck of St. Paul, but honoured among geologists
 as the man who first proved, from the occurrence of
 Arctic shells in the upraised sea-bottoms along the shores
 of the Firth of Clyde, that Scotland, at a comparatively
 recent geological period, had a climate like that of
 northern Norway.      Though he had reached his eightieth

               MAPPING OF THE DRIFTS                          97
 year, he was still vigorous, and passed most of the summer
 in his yacht, taking an active interest in the aquatic life
 of the busy Firth. When I visited him on board his trim
 little vessel, he looked so hale that one could almost believe
 him to be fit to start off any day for another cruise in the
 Mediterranean waters which he once knew so well.
     About the time of the publication of my memoir on
 the Glacial Drift an important change was introduced
 by the authorities at headquarters into the mapping of
 the geology of the country.       The Drift had never been
 mapped, and indeed was commonly regarded as a serious
 impediment to the mapping of the older formations,
 which it covered and concealed.            It was forgotten,
 however, that these superficial accumulations are of great
 agricultural importance, for upon their composition the
 character of the soil that covers them largely depends.
 This economic interest of the much maligned Drift
having now at last been recognised, orders were issued
 from headquarters that thenceforward the areas of the
superficial accumulations were to be traced upon the
field-maps in addition to the older solid rocks beneath
and further, that the tracts of the country which had
already been surveyed were to be revised, in order to have
the Drift inserted upon the maps.          This rearrangement
necessitated an increase of the staff.     The transference of
my colleague, H. H. Howell, to England having left
myself sole representative of the Survey in Scotland, it
was determined, in the course of the year 1 861, to add
two assistant geologists.       These were my old school
fellow John Young, already mentioned, and my brother
James.      In the following year a third assistant, B. N.
Peach, an able student from the School of Mines, was
appointed.
     It was unfortunate that the Drift mapping should be
the first kind of surveying work assigned to these fresh
recruits.     Not always an easy task, it is apt to be thought
monotonous, until its special interests are discovered by
patient work.       As senior member of the staff it fell to me
to train the new men.         Eventually the Local Director,

9 8                     SNOWED UP
Professor Ramsay, finding it impossible for him to inspect
the details of the mapping in Scotland as frequently as he
                               "
wished, constituted me his lieutenant-general," to use his
own phrase, with instructions to visit the new men from
time to time and report to him on the progress of the
work.
    During this period of inspecting duty I first saw
Loch Skene (1680 feet above sea-level) and recog
nised it as a tarn still dammed up by the moraines of a
glacier that filled a picturesque recess in the high grounds
of White Coomb in the uplands of Dumfriesshire.
Young was stationed at the shepherd's shieling near the
foot of the waterfalls of the Talk, a tributary of the Tweed.
When I visited him there, we climbed over the watershed
above the Linn, and were astonished to find such perfect
relics of a glacier, of which neither of us had ever heard,
though it had been detected some years before by Robert
Chambers.       We followed the track of the glacier south
wards and rested for the night at the well-known little
hostelry of Tibbie Shiels.       On getting up next morning
we found the whole countryside buried under several
inches of snow which had gathered into deep drifts that
made our return into the Talk valley impracticable.
The household was engaged in churning butter, an
operation in which we were glad to assist.          This snow
storm taught me a memorable lesson on the physiography
of a landscape. The ground being covered with a
continuous mantle of uniform white, the, distracting
influences of colour were removed, which so obscure the
minuter irregularities of the surface.        One could thus
see, as in   a piece of  statuary, the detailed  lineaments of
every slope.      Each little dimple had its pale violet
shadows, and the surface of the declivities all around could
now be seen to be infinitely more varied in their surface
contours than would be suspected when they are beheld,
in the full light of day, clothed with all the forms and tints
of vegetation.
    The increased attention now being paid to the Drift
deposits of the country led the Local Director in 1863 to

         CHANGE TO WEST OF SCOTLAND                        99
ask me to accompany him in an examination of the
exposures of these accumulations along the coast of
the north-east of England from Berwick-on-Tweed to
the Humber.       Parts of this shore-line reveal with great
clearness the composition and sequence of some of these
deposits.    At many places we took percentages of the
various types of stones in the boulder-clay, and gained
from them a good deal of information respecting the
probable direction of movement of the ice-sheet.              I
filled many pages   of my note-book   with these percentages,
and with sketches and detailed descriptions of the
sections, in the expectation that my companion would
write an account of the tour, and that my notes would be of
service to him.    But in the multiplicity of his duties, and
with his impaired health, he never succeeded in preparing
such a paper, and my notes have remained unused.
    What with my own studies and superintending the
Drift work of the Survey, my mind was rather obsessed
at this time with glacial questions.       Summing up the
knowledge     which   had  now   been  gathered together, I
wrote a descriptive account of the Ice-Age as it had left its
records on the surface of Scotland, which appeared in the
North British Review for November 1863.
     In the progress of the Geological Survey in Scotland,
which partly depended on that of the large scale Ordnance
maps, it was now decided to break new ground on the
west coast of the country, beginning in the south of
Ayrshire, and working thence north and east into the coal
fields. Accordingly in October 1863 I proceeded to the
ground assigned to me in Carrick.          When my friend
Mr. Richardson, the Free Church minister of Dailly,
heard of our intention to begin in the south of Ayrshire
he insisted on my taking quarters with him and his wife
at their manse.     The situation was exactly suited for the
work to be done, as it lies in the vale of the Girvan Water
at the foot of the Carrick Hills, a few miles from the
coast, with which it is connected by the line of railway
that runs northward to Glasgow.        Close to it one of the
smallest coal-fields of Scotland was in active working.

  ioo        DAILLY AND DALQUHARRAN
 The genial society of the manse made my stay under
 its roof memorably pleasant.
     I   had not been long established there when a letter
 came from my constant friend and correspondent Leonard
                                                            " You are
 Horner, containing the following paragraph :
 now in the immediate neighbourhood of Dalquharran
 Castle, the residence of my friends Mr. and Mrs.
 Kennedy, and as their acquaintance may make your stay
 at Dailly more agreeable, I enclose a note of introduction
 to him.     Dailly was the birthplace of my dear friend Mr.
 Thomas Thomson, advocate, of his brother John, the
 minister of Duddingstone and admirable painter, and of
 the most excellent wife of Professor Pillans, whom he
 lost many years ago.           Their father was the minister of
the    Parish."
     This timely introduction not only brought me the
 friendship of the family of Dalquharran, but through them
opened the way to a wide circle of acquaintance all over
the     county.   Perhaps no other shire in Scotland could
furnish an ampler list of landed proprietors, both of the
old stock and the newcomers.               The former, in addition
to titled possessors     of  large estates, included many smaller
landholders, some of whom could trace their genealogy
to a remote ancestry.           The Right Honourable Thomas
Francis Kennedy of Dunure was an excellent type of
these lesser landed gentry.1             Educated in Edinburgh
under Pillans and Dugald Stewart, he was from his
youth associated with the brilliant literary coterie which
then flourished in the Scottish metropolis.             He used often
to recount to me his reminiscences of the men and clubs
of that time. As he was born near the town of Ayr, and
had passed much of his life in the county wherein he
owned considerable landed property, he retained a lively
recollection of the state of the south-west of Scotland in
the closing years of the eighteenth and the early part of
the nineteenth century.            As my intercourse with him
grew more intimate, I often heard him contrast the present
condition of his district with what it was in his boyhood.
                  1 Scottish  Reminiscences, pp. 190-193.

                KENNEDY OF DUNURE                          101
 In those days the hardships of the small upland farmers
 and peasantry were, in some prolonged winters, almost
 incredibly severe.     He told how these people were some
 times compelled to bleed their cattle and mix the blood
 with oatmeal to keep themselves in food. He used to
 describe the Scottish diet of his early days, which included
 a number of dishes now seldom or never seen, such as
 solan-goose from Ailsa Craig, white and black puddings,
 crappit-heads, singed sheep's head, and sundry other
 preparations in the national cuisine, long since banished
 from the tables of polite society.       His account of the
 appearance of the solan-goose on the table was given with
 great humour, and possibly with a little heightening of
 the colours.    First, the bird was buried in the earth for a
 certain number of days.         It was then dug up and
 roasted.    So pervasive and nauseous was the odour that
 spread   from  the kitchen through all the castle, that the
 windows were kept open to let it escape.           He never
 entertained me to this example of the ancient dietary,
 but he not infrequently introduced other dishes which
 were quite palatable.       I finally struck at the black
 puddings.
    Kennedy of Dunure was a gentleman of an antique
 cast, courteous and stately in his manners, proud of his
descent and of his ancestral possessions, and tenacious of
 his rights, which he was sometimes thought to insist upon
more than he need have done.            He looked carefully
after his breeds of cattle, and was keenly alive to the use
of new inventions for the improvement of agriculture.
Part of the little Dailly coal-field was on his estate of
Dalquharran, and he worked the mineral according to the
best known methods.
    Though now a retired country squire, he had been
an active politician in his time.     For sixteen years he sat
in Parliament as member for the Ayr Burghs, and was
closely associated with Cockburn, Jeffrey, Horner, and
the other Whigs who brought in the Scottish Reform Bill.
He had retired from public life in 1854, and thereafter
lived entirely at his Ayrshire home, save that for some

 102         POLITICAL CORRESPONDENCE
twenty years he used to come up to London for the season.
When I made his acquaintance he was in his seventy-fifth
year, but still vigorous both in body and mind.               Though
he seldom referred to his political life, and never to the
circumstances in which it ended, I understood that he
had not been well treated by the chiefs of his own party,
and that one of his friends, Lord Murray of the Scottish
Bench, in indignation at this treatment and out of personal
regard for him, settled a large pension on him for life.
In the course of frequent visits to Dalquharran during
the next few years, I learnt from him that he possessed a
voluminous correspondence, particularly with Lord Cock-
burn, extending over most of the first half of last century
and relating mainly to the strenuous political life of that
period in Scotland.          Eventually he collected these letters,
and published them in 1874 in a volume of nearly six
hundred pages.1          But the book had no explanatory notes
or connecting narrative, and worst of all, no index, so that
save to undaunted students of political history, it could
hardly be called readable.            The copy which he gave me
was specially acceptable for the fine engraving of his
portrait (painted, I think, by Raeburn) when he was
thirty-four years of age and M.P.              His handwriting was
the most illegible in all my correspondence, resembling
nothing so much as the track of a sparrow across a sheet
of paper after its feet have been dipped into an ink-pot.
     Mrs. Kennedy, daughter of Sir Samuel Romilly,
 Master of the Rolls, was a singularly gentle and gracious
lady, fragile and beautiful in her old age, cultivated and
 keenly intelligent.        She had been married twenty years
 before her only child, a son, was born.               Mr. Kennedy
used to remark on the curious coincidence that he him
self was also an only child, born after twenty years of
wedlock.8
             chiefly connected with the Affairs of Scotland from Henry
   1 Letters
 Cockburn, Solicitor-General under Earl Grey's Government, afterwards
Lord Cockburn, to Thomas Francis Kennedy, M.P., afterwards the Right
 Hon. T. F. Kennedy, with other letters from eminent Persons during the
same period, 1818-1852.
   • Scottish Reminiscences,
                              p. 193.

       DEATH OF PILLANS AND HORNER                            103
   Dalquharran Castle is a large modern mansion, built
in a massive but rather tasteless style, in curious contrast
to its predecessor, the older castle, which now stands as a
picturesque, ivy-clad ruin a short distance off, near the
river.    The laird remembered when this ruin still had
its roof on and was partly habitable.          Dalquharran be
came a second home to me during the years of my
residence in Ayrshire, and not infrequently afterwards,
as long as my kind friends lived.        After my marriage my
wife accompanied me.        Her youth and her songs at once
gave her a place in Mrs. Kennedy's affections.
    One of my most vivid and delightful recollections of
Dalquharran is the series of family portraits, some by
Raeburn, that hung in the dining-room.          One could never
tire of gazing at them and marvelling at their charm and
masterly execution.       Scotland was fortunate to have so
consummate a painter, and her gentry did well to employ
him so freely as they did.        It is a great source of satis
faction   to  see  how steady   in  recent years has been the
growth of the public appreciation of Raeburn.
   The year 1 864 is memorable to me, for in it my friends
Professor Pillans and Leonard Horner both passed away.
Of the Professor I was glad to have seen more in recent
years under his own roof.        While the recollection of him
as he appeared in the class-room will never fade from my
memory, I delight also to picture him as he was in later
years when he had become a personal friend.                    Of
Leonard Horner, to whom Pillans first introduced me,
I wrote at the time a short appreciation which was
published in the Scotsman newspaper.           It was unsigned,
but his daughters in London guessed its authorship,
and they sent me a letter of thanks for the
                                                  "
                                                     deep feeling
                    " which
of gratification               my picture     of   their  father's
character and work had given them.            At the request of
the Royal Society I wrote the obituary                 notice of
him for the Proceedings.            Leonard     Horner had a
remarkably grave manner, beneath              which, however,
lay a most kindly and responsive human heart.                   It
        to   be   said of  him   that   he  was
                                                  " born to fill
used

 104                   AILSA CRAIG
chairs," and he certainly often presided at the societies
and associations with which he was connected, always
doing so with remarkable calmness and deliberation.
                                          "
 Somebody remarked of him that he           looked wiser than
any  man   could  possibly   be."  Before  he finally settled in
London he had made his mark in Scotland as an educational
reformer.    He was the founder of the School of Arts in
Edinburgh    —  an institution for the education of working-
men, which led the way in this department of educational
effort and has flourished with vigour.          Out of it has
grown the present excellent Heriot Watt College.             His
contributions to geology were few, but sufficient to
entitle his name to be remembered among the writers
in the infancy of that science in Britain.
   At this time (1863-64) such leisure as I could secure
was in great part spent in the writing of my volume on
The Scenery of Scotland viewed in connection with its
Physical Geology.      The Royal Society of Edinburgh
requested me to give them an address on the progress
of the Geological Survey in Scotland, which enabled
me to put before the public a statement                of what
had been done in the first ten years of its work in
the   country.     In two years from the time when
my own field-work had been transferred to the western
side of the country, I had completed the mapping
of the high ground between the valleys of the Girvan and
the Stinchar rivers, together with the coast-line, and had
extended the work northward about half-way to the town
                                                       "
of Ayr. This survey included Ailsa Craig, Keats' craggy
ocean pyramid."       The poet, in his well-known sonnet
to this prominent feature of the Firth of Clyde, puts many
questions about its history, chiefly involving length of
time, which even the boldest geologist would shrink
from attempting to answer.        There was no evidence on
the islet itself, so far as I could observe, which would
decide whether this huge mass of rock belongs to the
oldest or the youngest of the eruptive rocks of the Clyde
basin.   It may be connected with the Lower Silurian
volcanic series, so well exposed about Knockdolian in the

   PROGRESS OF SURVEY OF AYRSHIRE                         105
Stinchar valley, and thus be among the most ancient rocks
of the region.     On the other hand it may belong to the
same group as the granite of Goatfell in Arran, and thus
be younger than the soft clay on which London stands.
Popular legend has solved the problem in characteristic
fashion, recording that once upon a time a noted witch,
whose doings elsewhere have been alluded to by Burns,
took it into her head to lay down some stepping stones
between Carrick and the Irish coast.         Selecting a hill
in the vale of the Stinchar she took it up in her apron,
but a few miles from the starting-place the apron-strings
broke, and the huge hill fell into the Firth, where it now
forms Ailsa Craig. The hollow from which it was taken
is still pointed out.
   The southern portion of my Ayrshire work having been
completed from the centres of Dailly, Girvan, and Barr,
I was able in the spring of 1865 to move northwards
to the town of Ayr.        From that centre, owing to the
railway and its branch lines, a wide stretch of ground
could easily be reached, so that changes of station would
not be so frequent.       Better accommodation could also
be had there than in the remoter villages, and I had the
pleasure of inducing two of my sisters to share my bachelor
quarters in a pleasant villa close to the sea.
   It was at Ayr, in the summer of 1 865, that I finished the
last pages of The Scenery of Scotland.      The volume was
dedicated to Murchison, to whose friendship I owed so
much.      Yet its main thesis was in such direct antagonism
to his well-known cataclysmic opinions that I was pre
pared for some protest on his part, though he knew
what my opinions were.          But he accepted the com
pliment without demur.        The further I advanced in the
practical pursuit of geological studies I had become the
more convinced of the paramount share taken by denu
dation in the production of the present surface of Scotland.
Movements of the terrestrial crust had undoubtedly
played their part. There had been extensive upheaval
and subsidence, and enormous fractures had ruptured the
crust all over the country.     But the denuding agencies

106         " SCENERY OF SCOTLAND"
had been at work all the time, until no recognisable trace
has been left of the aspect of the ground at the close of
any subterranean movements.        The present contours of
the surface are unmistakeably the result of the operation
of the various denuding agents on material irregularly
raised into land, and presenting variable capacities of
resistance to the action of these agents.   The forms of the
present surface are thus the result of a long process of
sculpture which has been in progress ever since the
dry land appeared above the sea.      Like a mass of marble
in the hands of a sculptor who gradually effaces all trace
of its appearance as it was taken out of the quarry, each
landscape owes its first origin to the operation of the
forces which raised it above the sea.     What was then its
aspect we can only guess, but its present contours are the
result of the combined action of all the eroding agents,
which have been ceaselessly at work upon it since it was
upraised from below.
   The later pages of the Scenery of Scotland were passing
through the press when the announcement came from the
Royal Society of London which authorised the insertion
of F.R.S. on the title-page. This was an honour which
I deeply appreciated. I had little doubt that it was in no
small measure due to strong backing from Murchison.
Many years afterwards it was interesting to see the
original certificate in my favour, and to find that the
signatures attached to it were Charles Lyell, W. E. Logan,
A. C. Ramsay, J. B. Jukes, J. Prestwich, W. J. Hamilton,
J. Tyndall, J. Percy, D. T. Ansted, H. W. Bristow, E. W.
Binney, R. Hunt, and T. Sopwith.          The name of R. I.
Murchison is not in this list ; probably he was then on the
Council of the Society and in that capacity was disqualified
to sign a certificate.    At the same election, William
Huggins and Alfred Tennyson were made Fellows of the
Society.
   When the last sheets of the Scenery of Scotland were
sent to press, I was free to make an excursion to Arctic
Norway, which I had long planned, with the view of
studying the glaciation of that region where the ice still

   STUDY OF GLACIATION IN NORWAY                                 107
remains on the heights and creeps down the valleys in
glaciers, some of which even descend to the edge of the
sea.     The Ice-Age not being yet extinct in that region,
there was every probability that from this visit light would
be thrown upon the records of that geological period in
Scotland, where the actual ice has long since disappeared.
I was accompanied by two of my Survey colleagues,
my brother James and William Whitaker.
    Without halting by the way we made as quickly as
possible for the Holands Fjord, a little to the north of the
Arctic Circle, and spent a week there among the glaciers,
ice-worn rocks, moraines, perched blocks, and raised
beaches.      Thence we sailed northwards through the
intricate sounds and fjords, past the Lofodden Islands to
the island of Skjaervo, where we left the coasting steam
boat, and boated across to see the glacier of the Jokuls
Fjord, which was said to descend into the sea. We also
visited the fjords on the north side of the great snow-
field of the Jokuls Fjeld and reached Hammerfest, whence
we began the return journey.
    Opinion among geologists was still divided as to
whether the glaciation of Britain, during what is known as
the Glacial Period, was the work of floating ice at a time
when most of the land was submerged beneath the sea,
or of great sheets of land-ice that covered the country and,
moving out to sea, broke off there into icebergs.              Prob
ably most geologists still. clung to the former explanation.
As already stated, the detailed investigation involved in
the work of the Geological Survey in Scotland had con
vinced me that the views of the great Swiss glacialist,
Louis Agassiz, provided the true solution of the problem.
This conviction was amply confirmed by the exploration
of northern Norway. A brief narrative of this trip and
of the results obtained from it was communicated to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh.1
     "
   1   Notes for a Comparison of the Glaciation of Scotland with that
of Arctic Norway."     Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin. 15th January, 1866.
This paper was reprinted in my Geological Sketches at Home and
Abroad, p. 127.

 108    TRACKING TRACES OF THE ICE AGE
   A   few years later, when taking part in Sir Henry
                                 " Manchester
Roscoe's series of popular                      Lectures," I
                 "
gave one on        The Ice-Age," which contained some
personal impressions of this excursion into Scandinavia.
Landing upon the coast of Arctic Norway one sees
precisely the scenery of the western coast of Scotland.     I
found that on the outer islands of the Norwegian sea
board the same type of smoothed and striated rock-
surfaces, so familiar on the shores of Invernesshire and
Argyll, could everywhere be traced ; that the striae left
by the stones under the slowly moving ice had been
graven into and over all the little inequalities on the
surface of the solid rock ; that the striation went up over
the hills, and diverged from the high grounds exactly as it
does at home.      I followed these rock-markings up one of
the fjords which promised to yield the best results.   They
were found to wind in and out with all the windings of
the valley exactly as they may be seen to do on the sides
of the sea-lochs and glens on the western coast of Scotland.
Tracking them step by step, I found them at last passing
beneath one of the glaciers which comes down to the
sea-margin from the snow-field.       I crept under the blue
ice and found bits of stone between the ice and the under
lying rock.     It was easy to see how the sharp points of
these stones would score the rock as they were borne
onward by the slowly gliding ice, and how in the lapse
of time even the hardest materials would be ground
down by this constant attrition.      I caught the ice, as it
were, in the very act of doing the work of which I had
hitherto only seen the ancient results.      The pleasure of
actually looking   with   one's own eyes on the proofs which
had been confidently expected was a memorable experience.
   On this journey the Scots pronunciation of Latin was
found to be of service, in default of acquaintance with the
language of the country.         When our little party dis
embarked from the coasting-steamer at a calling-place
from which we should be able to reach the farm on the
Holands Fjord, whither we were bound, we took our
places in a row-boat which proceeded for a long way

           LATIN IN ARCTIC NORWAY                            109
without revealing any village, or indeed any trace of human
occupation.      Beginning to wonder whether or not we had
left the steamboat at the wrong place, I turned to a sedate
Lutheran pastor who, with other natives, had got into the
boat with us, and asked him in English whether the
rowers were making for the hamlet for which we were
bound.      Most educated Norwegians know at least a
few words of English ; but he smiled and shook his
head.     I then tried him in French, with no better
result, and lastly in German, but received only the
same bland and benevolent smile.            During the voyage
from Hull to Norway, and in the coasting steamer
from Trondheim, I had been working diligently with
a grammar and dictionary of the Norwegian language,
but I had not yet acquired enough of a vocabulary
or of confidence to venture on a conversation in that
tongue.     It was a novel situation to be a foreigner
in a land of whose language one had not know
ledge enough even to ask one's way.                  With Ovid
among the boorish Getae, who laughed at his Latin, I
could exclaim
           Barbaras hie ego sum, qui non intellegor ulli.
But singularly, it was Latin that now came to my help.
Our reverend fellow-traveller      at last broke the awkward
silence by asking a question in that tongue, pronounced
of course in    the broad continental way in which I was
taught at the High School, and the rest of our talk was
carried on, though somewhat limpingly, in the same
language.
   This experience quickened my zeal in studying the
language of the country more assiduously than ever.
The grammar and dictionary, however, received powerful
practical aid from the conditions of travel in those
northern regions.       The absence of hotels, and the close
touch with the native population involved in the system
whereby a traveller is passed on by boat or carriole from
one farmer's house to another, gave me many oppor
tunities of getting into touch with the children.         Making

 no        GEOLOGIST IN BURNS' COUNTRY
full use of the material supplied by the books, and asking
the young folk endless questions, I rapidly increased my
vocabulary,      while  at the  same  time affording infinite
amusement       to the children by my mispronunciation of
words.      At  one of the fjords where we halted I found the
little girls    playing with shells of the northern clam
(Pecten islandicus), an organism which is common in the
Arctic shell-beds- of the Clyde, though now extinct in our
British seas. It was still evidently abundant as a living
denizen of these northern waters, and with its elegant
shape and bright colour it was appreciated as a plaything
                                                       " Red
by the children who called the separate valves
 Horses."      Cultivating acquaintance with the young,
 I thereby pleased their mothers, who sometimes joined
them in their lessons in Norse to this wandering English
man.      It was my good fortune to meet again, at one of
 the halting-places of the coasting steamboat on the return
journey, the same native pastor.          Coming on board
he at once recognised me and gave a Latin salutation ;
 but to his evident surprise I was now able to reply in his
own language.
    The stay at Ayr as the centre of my geological work
 extended over two pleasant years.        The mapping from
 that centre proved wonderfully varied and full of novelty.
 It enlarged my acquaintance with the volcanic history of
 Scotland by revealing some fresh areas of eruption in the
 time of the Old Red Sandstone and the Carboniferous
 periods.    It brought to light also, for the first time,
 proofs   of  the existence of a number of little volcanic
 vents later in age than the Coal-measures, together with a
 group of lavas and tuffs which had been discharged from
 these vents at the time of the deposition of the red
 (Permian) sandstones that overlie the Coal-measures.
 The discovery of a hitherto unknown epoch of volcanic
 energy in Scotland gave me much satisfaction.         It was
 made in what is commonly known as the
                                                     " Burns'
 Country," the poet's farm of Mossgiel lying in the midst
 of it. Certainly with more than geological thoughts in
 my head, I traversed the very fields which Burns toilfully

           CATHCART OF AUCHENDRANE                               1 1 1
                                             "                "
 ploughed, and ascended the little              gowany glens     and
 "                    "
   hazelly shaws        where he used
                    To stray and pensive ponder
                        A heartfelt sang.
 Many an hour was delightfully passed in the deep and
 picturesque ravines wherein
             Ayr, gurgling kiss'd his pebbled shore
             O'erhung with wild woods, thick'ning green   ;
and while maps and note-book received their due geo
logical tribute, the poet's musical pictures of the scenery
were often on my lips.
    During the stay at Ayr one of the most interesting
 persons, of whom I saw a good deal, was Mr. Elias
Cathcart of Auchendrane.             He was a Scottish laird of a
bygone type, full of humour and oddity and a most
diverting talker.       He had parted with a good deal of his
land to Mr. James Baird, one of the great ironmasters
of the West, who had built the mansion of Cambusdoon
       "
near     Alloway's auld haunted kirk." At a dinner party
there,   the   laird of Auchendrane was alluding somewhat
mournfully to the changes which, since his boyhood, had
been made in the district, and he concluded by saying,
" Well, if I were to come down
                                           fifty years after this, I
daresay I would see just as much change again."             Where
                                                  "
upon the host immediately ejaculated                What's that ye
                    '               '
say, Cathcart,        come down !         Take care ye hae na to
come    up."
    Auchendrane Castle is a singularly romantic old strong
hold overhanging the ravine of the River Doon, where
the laird lived with his wife and two daughters.            Among
the attractions of the place was a row of noble silver-firs
that towered above the surrounding woodland.                  Once
or twice     a  member     of  this   group    had  been struck by
lightning,     and  the  gentle  and   genial   Mrs.  Cathcart took
me aside one day to ask whether by chance there could be
a vein of iron-ore below these trees, whereby the thunder
bolts were attracted to them.            I was able confidently to
affirm that her fear was quite groundless.              She replied

112                    DINNERS IN LONDON
                                                              "
that she was thankful to hear        adding that
                                             it,       Cathcart   if
took     into his head that there was vein of iron below, he
        it                                         a
would have the whole place dug up to find it."
    When Professor Ramsay came down to Ayr on
inspection duty, he also was invited both to Dalquharran
and Auchendrane.         With the latter place and its inmates
he was so enchanted that he made them the subject
of  a  delightful paper in the Saturday Review,            have        I
elsewhere given       few sketches of other Ayrshire worthies
                         a
whom     itwas my good fortune to meet during my residence
in their county.1
    From Ayr, Dalquharran was within easy reach, and my
"               " were often
   week-ends                   spent there.    There were also
steamboat facilities for crossing to Arran, and from time
to time      Ipassed     quiet Sunday in that incomparable
                                a
island.    On one of these excursions Professors John
Nichol and Edward Caird were my companions, and in
the course of long walks we had much pleasant converse.
    During the residence in Ayr         was occasionally called
                                              I
to London on Survey duty, and on the business of the
Examinership in the London University, but only for                        a
day or two at      time.
                       a     On one of these occasions in the
spring of 1866        was invited to
                        I                pleasant dinner in the
                                                   a
Garrick Club given                   by
                                Alexander Macmillan.       The
party   included     Millais  the  artist,  Samuel   Baker  the
African traveller and his brother Valentine, W. H.
Russell, the Times war-correspondent, A. V. Dicey;
R. H. Hutton, editor of the Spectator, and one or two
more.     There was great deal of excellent talk,
                                a                        which     in
I  especially enjoyed Millais' contributions.      Later in the
same year, on the occasion of another brief visit to London,
I  dined,     byMurchison's invitation, at the Geographical
Club and met some of the leading geographers of the day.
I  was specially interested in John Campbell of Islay who
afterwards published Fire and Frost, and of whom            was        I
destined to see much in later years.
    The winter of 1866-67 was mostly passed in the office
at Edinburgh over the indoor-work of the Survey.        On the
                 1
                     Scottish   Reminiscences, pp. 190-200.

ANNUAL SURVEY DINNER IN LONDON                                  113
4th February I read to the Royal Society there my first
                    "
paper on the           Tertiary Volcanic Rocks of Scotland,"
embodying       the   results  of the explorations in Mull and
Skye.      A few days thereafter I was summoned to
London by the Director-General for a fortnight, in order
to discuss with him certain official rearrangements which
were then in contemplation.              It had become obvious
that if the Survey in Scotland was to make more rapid
progress, as was eminently desirable, the number of its
staff must be increased.             But such an augmentation
would throw much additional labour on Professor
Ramsay, who as matters then stood found himself
unable to overtake all the inspecting work in Scotland,
and had been under the                   necessity   of delegating
a part of it to            myself.     The proposal ultimately
took the shape of a separation of the Scottish staff into a
distinct branch of the Survey, with an increase of its
numbers and a separate Director, under the control of the
Director-General.         I arrived at headquarters in time for
                                   "
the annual dinner of the              Royal Hammerers," as the
staff of the Survey and Museum at Jermyn Street had
styled themselves, far back in the days of De La Beche and
 Edward Forbes.          At these festivals Murchison for some
years took the chair, and he would now and then follow
the custom of versifiers in the staff, by writing a ditty
 for the occasion to the tune of some popular song.                I
                                                    "
 remember one of his effusions about the               Royal Ham
 merers
           " 1
               which in most unmusical fashion he sang or
                                " British Grenadiers."
 chanted to the air of the                                  A book,
 in which these doggerel productions were entered, is or
 was kept at the Jermyn Street Museum.               But the young
 men who had spent most of the year in solitary country
 quarters were in no mood to be critical.            They came to
 enjoy themselves, and generally succeeded.              They met
 at these gatherings colleagues whom they had not seen for
 perhaps twelve months, and the cordiality and comrade
 ship of the service were certainly thereby promoted.
    1 See
          Life of Edward    Forbes, pp. 412, 498 ; Life of Andrew C.
 Ramsay, pp. 142, 175.

ii4 SCOTTISH SURVEY BRANCH CREATED
   From these and other gaieties, including         a  pleasant
Sunday with John Evans and his family at Nash Mills, I
returned to the north to resume field-work in Ayrshire.
As much ground having been mapped as could con
veniently be reached from Ayr as a centre, I now pitched
my camp at Ardrossan, which was then a far less busy
seaport than it has now become.        From the windows of
my quarters I looked across the firth to Arran, and
greatly enjoyed the sunsets over its noble mountain
range. This island was now brought within easier reach
than ever by a daily steamboat service, and I was still
within hail of Dalquharran.      Shortly after the change to
Ardrossan, and at the end of many weeks of official
correspondence between Murchison and the Science and
Art Department, the following note reached me.
                                         1 2th April, 1867.
My dear Geikie,
           I this day received the official authority appoint
ing you Director of the Scottish Survey from          1st April
(never mind the day    !)....
                         Yours very truly,
                                    Rod. I. Murchison.

                        CHAPTER V
  START OF THE GEOLOGICAL           SURVEY OF SCOTLAND
                          (1867-1871)
The staff of  the newly constituted Scottish branch  of the
Geological    Survey was organised as follows :        One
Director : one District Surveyor ; two Geologists ;
six Assistant Geologists ; two Fossil Collectors ; one
Porter. Nearly all of these officers had to be found, and
when found had to pass through the ordeal of examination
by the Civil Service Commission.      The task of mustering
the recruits proved a good deal more difficult than could
have been anticipated.      The most memorable incident in
its progress was the rejection of an able algebraist, who
had been warmly recommended by Sir William Thomson
(afterwards Lord Kelvin) but failed in arithmetic.        In
his examination, as I heard, he had been required by the
Commissioners to add up a long table of pounds, shillings,
and pence within a limited number of minutes.        Never
having been accustomed to sums in compound addition,
he not unnaturally failed to complete the summation
within the prescribed time. The early doings of this
Commission showed that little or no consideration was
given to the kind of work for which the candidates were
desired.    The treatment of our algebraist might have
been appropriate bad he been seeking the post of a
grocer's shopman, though even then, accuracy rather than
rapidity of summation would have been the better test.
In the end, however, we succeeded in adding the mathema
tician to the staff, of which he proved a valuable member.
    It was my determination not to give up my own work
                               »5

u6     GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF SCOTLAND
in mapping, so long as this did not interfere with the duties
of superintending that of the staff, in the field and in
the office.   But in the course of a few years this effort
was found to be no longer possible, and I reluctantly
relinquished what had for so many years been to me one
of the chief pleasures of life. But the surrender was in
large measure compensated by the great interest of enter
ing into the work of each member of the staff, and gaining
thus a broader grasp of the geology of the country as a
whole, as well as a detailed knowledge of each district,
as it came within the area of survey.
    Complete liberty having now been obtained to arrange
the work and choose the methods to be employed, steps
could be taken to meet a serious defect in our organi
sation — the absence of any satisfactory means of petro-
graphical determination, in cases where the appliances of
the field-geologist   failed to suffice for the accurate
discrimination of rocks, especially those of compact,
close-grained texture.     Application was first made for
the assistance of chemical analysis, which led to an
arrangement whereby such analysis should be conducted
by the Professor of Chemistry in the School of Mines,
who was an official in the same department with the
Geological Survey, and who, in the days of De La Beche,
was understood to undertake this kind of work for the
Survey, as part of the duties of his office.   But the result
proved unsatisfactory.     The work  was  put into the hands
of some of the more advanced pupils of the school, and
was not detailed enough to be of much service.          After
some years one of the assistant geologists, a capable
chemist, was supplied with an improvised laboratory in
Edinburgh, where he carried out chemical analysis as
part of his winter indoor-work.       Eventually, when the
Director-Generalship    passed  into my hands, this branch
of research was fully organised at the Jermyn Street
Museum, where an excellent laboratory already existed,
and where an accomplished chemist was installed as one
of the regular staff, whose sole duty was to analyse the
rocks and minerals met with in the course of the mapping.

           MICROSCOPIC PETROGRAPHY                        117
   Even more important      than chemical analysis for the
purposes of the field-geologist, was the application of the
method of microscopical investigation, inaugurated for
petrography by Sorby, who, as already stated, had pointed
out to geologists in 1858 the remarkable results that could
be obtained by the investigation of thin transparent
sections of rocks.      But though on the Continent a
number of observers had adopted this method with
increasing ardour, the geologists of this country were slow
to perceive its value.    My experience with Sorby when
he was in Edinburgh working over the Nicol collection
of thin sections of minerals and fossil woods (p. 28) pre
pared me for the adoption of this method of study, not
merely by full-blooded petrographers, but by geologists
in the field.   During the mapping of Ayrshire I began
to make thin slices of the igneous rocks which I met with
in the field.    My esteemed colleague A. C. Ramsay,
                                               "
however, had no sympathy with this               new-fangled
geology,"   and,   in his own   words,   did  not  believe in
"                                                         But
   studying a mountain through a microscope."
it was recognised in the end by some members of the staff
in England, that for the precise determination of many
close-grained igneous rocks, and for their correct insertion
on the maps, the microscope must be made an essential
instrument in the work of the Geological Survey.          The
preparation   of one's  own  thin sections,  however,   was  a
laborious process, and for the most part only partially
successful.    Samples of the rocks were eventually sent
to a London firm, which prepared microscopic slides from
them.     In later years two of the subordinate members
of the staff in Scotland became proficient experts in
cutting the sections, and in the end a trained petrographer
was appointed as one of the permanent staff at the head
office in London.
    The British Association met this year (1 867) at Dundee,
under the presidency of the Duke of Buccleuch.          At the
 Geological Section, of which I had been elected President,
 Lyell, Murchison, John Phillips, and Robert Chambers,
 besides a few other veterans, were present, and there

 u 8 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUNDEE
 was a good contingent    of younger geologists.    Since the
 Aberdeen meeting of the Association, eight years before,
 my studies of volcanic geology had been considerably
 extended.     They led me to choose as the subject of the
                              "
 Presidential Address, the       History of Volcanic Action
 in the British Islands," and to make what was the first
 attempt to group in chronological order the sequence of
 eruptions in this westernmost part of Europe.        Having
 also been asked to give one of the evening lectures, I
 discoursed on the origin of the present scenery of Scot
 land, dwelling especially on the paramount influence of
 prolonged denudation on the details of our landscapes.
 The views then put forward were only an application
of the doctrines of Hutton and Playfair, but to many of
 the audience they were novel.        Charles Kingsley, who
was there, told me next evening that "the lecture had
been a kind of revelation to him of what he had for years
been   groping and grubbing for."
    The Saturday excursion, which, at the request of the
local committee, the President of the Geological Section
planned and conducted, was taken along the shore to the
east of St. Andrews for the purpose of examining the
singularly clear and instructive sections of the Lower
Carboniferous strata and the volcanic vents, which have
there been laid bare by the sea.        The success of this
excursion was enhanced by brilliant weather.           There
followed a banquet given by the University of St.
Andrews in honour of the Association.              Principal
Tulloch, in the full vigour of life, took an active share in
mustering and entertaining the guests.        Dean Stanley,
who happened to be at St. Andrews, had a place of
honour at the table.      Principal Forbes, though full of
interest in the success of the meeting, was unable to
attend the dinner; but I had the opportunity for a short talk
with him at his house.      It was the last time that I saw
that great and good man.        Robert Chambers as one of
the croupiers at the dinner, made a genial speech ; him
also I never met again.
    At the close of the Association meeting, Lord Kinnaird

             PRINCE CHARLIE'S SWORD                      119
 carried off Murchison and me to Rossie Priory, where we
 remained a few days.       One of the most memorable of
 these days was that on which we were taken to Fingask,
 to call on the Misses Murray-Threipland, whose old
 castellated mansion was a veritable museum of Jacobite
 relics.   The ladies were in great glee over the visit that
 had just been paid to them by Professor Charles Martin,
 of Montpellier, who had been attending the Geological
 Section at Dundee.      His enthusiasm for Scotland and
 everything Scottish captivated them. They told us how
 they bade him kneel, and how, taking a sword that had
 belonged to Prince Charlie, they laid it on his shoulder,
 and, as if the blade still possessed some royal virtue,
 dubbed him knight.       Six years afterwards I chanced to
 meet this French professor in a river steamboat on the
 Tiber bound for Ostia, with a parry of students led
 by their Professor from the University of Rome.           I
 addressed him as
                     " Sir Charles," which greatly pleased
 him,   and he recalled with much vivacity the charms of
 Fingask and the distinguished ladies who had entertained
 him there.     My acquaintance with Lord and Lady
 Kinnaird, begun at this time, ripened into a friendship
which brought me from year to year to Rossie Priory, as
long as he lived.
    Though, as already mentioned, it was soon evident that
the Director of the Survey would have so much to do in
inspecting the field-work of his staff as to leave little or
no time for any mapping by himself, he naturally wished
to complete the survey of western Ayrshire and Renfrew
shire up to the Firth of Clyde at Greenock.       With this
view, in the summer of 18 68, quarters were shifted from
Ardrossan to Largs, whence most of the volcanic plateau
was mapped which rises so steeply from the coast, and
stretches eastward to the coal-fields of Beith and Dalry.
It was while at Largs that I made the acquaintance of
Ferdinand Zirkel, who came thither with a note of
introduction from Professor Ramsay.        He accompanied
me over some parts of the volcanic ground, and was much
interested in the evidence there visible of two widely

120       VISIT OF FERDINAND ZIRKEL
separated    periods of igneous activity.     He was also
surprised and pleased to find the microscope, and thin
slices of the rocks of the district, among my household
goods.     He was at this time Professor at Lemberg, and
on the threshold of his career as one of the great petro-
graphers of his day.    Tall, broad-shouldered, and some
what short-sighted, so that he always wore glasses, he
was brimming over with geological enthusiasm and eager
interest in what he saw.     This brief visit from him laid
the foundation of a firm friendship between us, and of
a correspondence which       continued for nearly half a
century and only ceased with his lamented death in 191 2.
He will often be referred to in subsequent chapters of
this narrative.
    Later in the same summer, with four of my staff, I made
an excursion to the Continent, partly geological and
partly tourist, up the Rhine and through a portion of
Switzerland.     At Bonn we made the acquaintance of the
venerable H. von Dechen, the Nestor of Rhineland
geologists, and met Ferdinand Zirkel, who at every recess
from his professorial duties, repaired to Bonn to be with
his mother, to whom he was devotedly attached.           To
our surprise, we also stumbled upon the Director-General
of the Survey, who had informed me, a week or two before,
that owing to Lady Murchison's state of health, he thought
of taking a short trip to the Continent, not for baths, but
merely for amusement and relaxation.           The younger
members of our little party had thus an opportunity of
shaking hands with their Chief, now in the seventy-
seventh year of his age.
    We lingered at some of the more picturesque little
towns on the Rhine, and in our boating excursions on the
river were much interested to find that by placing our
ears close to the bottom of the boat we could distinctly
hear the rattling of the pebbles on the bed of the river as
they were kept rolling over each other by the onward
current.    We afterwards made the same observation at
different points on the Moselle between Cochem and
Coblentz.     As students of denudation, we recognised

          A RHINE GEOLOGICAL PARTY                        121
that as the pebbles must have travelled many leagues
from their source, they could not fail to have undergone a
measurable loss of bulk by the prolonged abrasion, and
that this loss must add to the muddiness of the rivers.
   Furnished with letters of introduction from Zirkel to
the geological members of the teaching staff of the
Jesuit establishment at the Laacher See, we spent some
profitable days exploring the volcanic riches of the Eifel,
climbing its cinder-cones, following the tracks of its lava
streams, finding dead birds at its mephitic gas-springs,
and collecting the carbonic acid gas in an inverted
tumbler of water at some of the more powerful emanations.
We traversed the region to Daun in a clumsy leiterwagen,
saw the famous Maare, and halting at Bertrich, struck the
Moselle at the little village of Alf. As the water in the
river was too low for the steamboats to ply, we had leisure
to follow, on foot for some distance, the remarkable
windings of the river in the sinuous ravine or cafion which
it has cut for itself out of the tableland of plicated
Devonian strata.     The gorges that have been excavated
by  this  river and  the Rhine are a constant and ever-
increasing wonderment to geological eyes, which at the
same time are by no means insensible to the charms of
their scenery, with its picturesquely-perched castles and
quaintly antique little towns.    Taking a boat at Cochem
we floated and rowed down the forty miles to Coblentz,
encountering a brilliant thunderstorm on the way, and
arriving at our destination after the gates of the town
were closed for the night.    With some little difficulty we
obtained admission and a night's quarters.
   The ascent of the great gorge of the Rhine, with its
memorable demonstration of river-erosion, led us to
Bale, whence we made straight for Grindelwald, in order
to do just a little bit of mountaineering and see the
glaciers.    Securing Peter Michel, as guide, we made
for a chalet some 1500 feet higher, so as to begin the
ascent early next morning.     The Strahlegg Pass, between
10,000 and 1 1,000 feet above sea-level, was duly reached
by the party roped together.     It was our first glimpse of

 122    FIRST VISIT TO SWISS GLACIERS
the interior  of the great Alpine mountain world.       The
panorama embraced some of the giants of the Oberland —
Finster Aarhorn, Munch, Eiger, Jungfrau, Schreckhorn
and many more.
    Descending to the Unter Aar glacier on the other side
we found the surface of this glacier much more even
than that on the Grindelwald side.            Walking was
accordingly more rapid ; but with so much to be seen on
the way, by a group of geologists to whom it was all beheld
for the first time, the walk of fifteen miles down to the
Grimsel took between four and five hours.           Nowhere
are the superficial features of the ice-world to be seen in
greater perfection and abundance than in this famous and
classic space — ice-tables, dirt-cones, crevasses, glacier
streams, moraines, perched blocks, and huge walls of bare
rock admirably smoothed, polished, and striated.
    In descending the Rhone valley by diligence, we halted
for a night at Brigue, and had there an opportunity of
witnessing the effects produced by the rapid flooding of a
tributary valley.     A few days of warm south wind had
thawed the snow on the mountains and swollen the
river which, rushing through the village, had swept away
a bridge and partially demolished some houses.        In the
half that was left standing of one of these dwellings, a
fireplace was exposed on the first floor, with a kettle still
in its place.     From Brigue we made for Geneva, and
thence hurried homeward.
   The autumn of this year (1868) was chiefly spent in
inspecting work in the field, varied by two brief visits to
London in November connected with the Examinership
in the London University.        I was one day surprised to
receive  a letter  in  somewhat curious English, and in a
minute penmanship that ran obliquely across four closely-
written pages.     Here are the first few sentences :
                          Vienna, the 18th August, 1868.
Dear Sir,
         Notwithstanding I have not the pleasure of our
acquaintance,   I  wish to express you personally with what

    CORRESPONDENCE WITH AMI BOUE                              123
 delight I remarked that Scotland at last had got a geo
 logist who followed in the steps not only of Faujas St.
 Fond (Hutton, Macculloch left aside) but also of mine.
 I mean the so neglected study of igneous rocks. How
 is it possible that Great Britain would have given rise
 to a so numerous set of palaeontological geologists,
 without producing in the mean time a set of well-teached
 mineralogists and lithologists, to be apt for the solution
 of all the intricated problems of volcanic intrusions ?
    The signature on the last page was Ami Boue.         It came
 like a voice from the grave.     I had published appreciative
 reference to the excellent work which             this pioneer
geologist   achieved  in the early decades  of the  century, but
 imagined that he was no longer alive.       The letter showed
 that he had retained a copious and accurate remembrance
 of the time which he had spent in Scotland. He correctly
 named a number of places which especially dwelt in his
                          " if more than half a seculum had
memory, adding that
 not elapsed since I had the good fortune of being able to
hammer in Scotland, I would have return to your Scottish
 Mist, and endeavour to try there my geological experi
ence."
    Boué had a singular history.        He came of a French
family that could trace its annals back for several cen
turies.    One of his ancestors was sent by his father out of
France,   concealed  in an empty sugar-cask, and despatched
to Amsterdam, in order to escape from the religious
persecution under Louis XIV.            Eventually this exile
established himself in business at Hamburg in the year
1705, and became a rich man.           In the fifth generation
from him my correspondent was born in Hamburg in
1794.     In his boyhood, while Napoleon was over
running Europe, Boué pursued his education at Geneva,
but the political horizon being so unsettled, and the
possibility of the loss of the family property in Hamburg
having to be considered, he was pressed by his guardians
to choose a profession that would at least enable him to
gain his livelihood, if the worst should befall.             He

 124       DEATH OF PRINCIPAL FORBES
resolved to take to medicine, and in order to avoid the
turmoils of the Continent, he chose to place himself at the
University of Edinburgh.       As he remarked to me when
I paid him a visit in 1869, " I really went to Scotland to
escape from Napoleon."
    Furnished with good introductions, he made friends
and acquaintances in the best society of the Scottish
 capital.   He continued his studies there until he took
the degree of Doctor of Medicine in 1 8 1 7.    At the same
time,   while  attending Jameson's lectures, he developed a
strong love of mineralogy and geognosy, and appears to
have spent much of his spare time in making geological
excursions over a large part of Scotland.           In these
journeys    he  took  copious notes of what  he  saw,  which
 were eventually embodied by him in a volume written
 in French, which was published at Paris in 1820 with
 the title- Essai Geologique sur FEcosse — a most valuable
 treatise, which was far in advance of its day.         The
 correspondence which he began with me at this time
 continued as long as he lived, and our friendship was
 further cemented by my visit to him at Vienna in the
 summer of 1 869.
    My early friend, Principal Forbes, died on the last day
 of 1868. As already mentioned his health had been
 slowly failing for some years.     He gently passed away
 in the midst of his family, holding the hand of his
 eldest boy, and with the calm courage and trust of a true
 Christian.    While my admiration of his scientific prowess
 was profound, not less was my affectionate regard for him
 personally. These feelings found expression in an obituary
 memoir, communicated as a presidential address to the
 Edinburgh Geological Society. The brief report of
 this address which appeared in the newspapers led his
 widow to ask to be allowed to publish the complete
 memoir in pamphlet form.        This was accordingly done
 by her, and the account of Forbes's geological work
 appended to the address was included in his Life pub
 lished in 1873.
     The Royal Society of Edinburgh continued to show

        ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH                                 125
its interest in the progress           of the Geological Survey of
Scotland, by from time to time inviting me to give an
account of its progress at one of the evening meetings.
The mention of this Society recalls its pleasant dining-
club, to which reference has already been made, and of
which I was now a member.1                 It included some choice
spirits, who in ordinary society might be considered
staid and demure, but who in the genial atmosphere of
               "
the club         let themselves go," and showed a capacity for
humour and merriment that would have astonished
those       who only saw them at other times.                    With
such men as Lord Neaves, Sir Douglas Maclagan,
Professor Blackie, and Sir Daniel Macnee as performers,
it may be imagined how delightful these evenings
were.        Some      of the members, endowed with the
faculty of verse-making, wrote topical songs which
 they sang on these occasions.                It was said of Lord
Neaves that when he was seen on the bench, apparently
taking notes in some tedious case before him, he might
really be inditing some humorous effusion to be sung by
him at the club dinner the same evening.1              The ditties by
 Maclagan were the gems of our Muse, and fortunately
most of them were gathered together by him into a little
volume published in his lifetime.
     The membership of the Royal Society Club at Edin
burgh was restricted to Fellows of the Society, though
guests could be invited.                Numerous convivial clubs
which flourished in that town down even into the earlier
decades of last century had died out.               About this time
(1869-70) the Edinburgh Evening Club was started as an
attempt to revive the evening sociality of an older time.
David Masson, one of its chief founders, constantly
attended while his health allowed.                  As one of the
evenings was that on which the Royal Society held a
 meeting, it was a common practice to stroll along Princes
    1 Scottish  Reminiscences, p. 355.
   •  A  selection of his metrical contributions was published with the
title Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific, by an old Contributor
to Maga, of which a third enlarged edition appeared in 1869.

   126            VISIT TO BOUE IN           1869
  Street to this Club after the meeting.    Many of the more
  eminent men in law, literature, science, and general
  culture in Edinburgh joined this Club, the membership
  of which was limited to 1 50.
     It now at last became evident that the duties of the
  Director of the Survey in Scotland could not be fully
  discharged if he continued to devote part of his time to
  personal mapping in the field.      As already stated, I had
  been unwilling to relinquish    the ground in Ayrshire and
  Renfrewshire until the mapping had been carried up to
  the shores of the Clyde.     Since this work was begun by
  me in 1863, a strip of country nearly fifty miles in length
 and some three to ten miles in breadth had been mapped
 along the coast from Lendalfoot, south of Girvan, up to
 the northern boundary of Ayrshire.          To complete the
 area up to the Clyde I took quarters at Gourock, and in
  three continuous months of the summer of 1869, had the
 satisfaction of finishing the work, thus completing the
 survey of a total area of between 200 and 300 square
 miles.    Much to my regret it was not possible, on account
 of the pressure of other duties, to include in this work the
 higher part of the great volcanic plateau to the east.
 Never after this time, save as a rare and brief pleasure,
 could I resume the joyous work of independent mapping.
     Correspondence with Ami Bou6 had now become so
 continuous and interesting that his invitation to pay him
 a visit could not be refused.      The
                                         "
                                           Naturforscher und
 Aerzte," the German equivalent of our British Association
 for the Advancement of Science, were to meet at Inns-
 pruck in September 1869, and I arranged to attend their
 gathering, after having been with Boue\       Leaving Scot
 land at the end of August, and travelling by Cologne and
 Nuremberg, I reached Vienna late on 4th September.
 My venerable correspondent met me at his town house
 in Vienna, whence next day we went about an hour's
journey by railway to Voslau, where he had a pleasant
 country retreat, on the last spur of the Alps as they dip
 down into the plain of the Leitha.       Here he spent each
 summer    amidst  his vineyards, almonds, peaches, quinces,

       HAIDINGER, SUESS, AND OTHERS                      127
apples, and other fruits, some of which were then in full
 bearing.    He was a keen maker of wine, contriving, by
judicious use of the pump-well, to get more than one
yield from the same grapes.
    We had long talks, in which he gave, with much dry
 humour, reminiscences of his stay in Scotland.       It was
 astonishing to find that his memory retained so many
 minute details of the places he had visited.   Some of the
 recollections were droll enough, as when he recalled that
 as far as he could discover, there was only one washing-
 tub in Edinburgh, and it was in the hospital ! We
 paid several visits to Vienna, and met there a number
 of the Austrian geologists, including Suess, Hauer,
 Tscherma^ and some of the younger men.           When we
 called on the venerable Wilhelm Haidinger, famous for
 his studies in mineralogy and optics, we found him sitting
 in his study.   Like Faust in Gounod's opera, before he is
 transformed into a young man, he was wrapped in a long
 dressing-gown, his white beard flowing down his breast,
 his head covered with long lint-white hair that hung down
 his neck (as Boue* told me, it was a wig), and his feet
 immersed in enormous woollen shoes.       He spoke of his
 early time in Scotland, between 1823 and 1826, when he
 lived in Edinburgh with Mr. Allan, the owner of one of
 the best private mineralogical cabinets in this country,
 and when Haidinger's knowledge of minerals was of
 much service.     His wife and daughter also received us
 with great courtesy.
     Edouard Suess, with whom from this time a corres
 pondence began which lasted as long as he lived, gave me
 full directions how to reach the Dachstein glacier, which I
 wished to visit on the way to Innspruck.       He and Dr.
 Wolff drove me to Doppling to see the extended view
 across the vast plain of the Danube to the distant Car
 pathian mountains, and also to visit some geological
 sections in this neighbourhood.
    From Vienna I went to Ischl and thence to Halstatt,
 where, through the attention of one of the officials, I was
 enabled to descend the salt mines and see the processes

128     DACHSTEIN, SALZBURG, INNSPRUCK
of working.     With   a good guide and a sufficient stock of
provisions for us both, I started for the Wies Alp,   a small
hamlet, high up among the mountains, consisting of no
more than four wooden huts, each tenanted by a young
woman who attended to the cattle that were pastured
there in summer.      The hut in which we passed the night
consisted of the ground-floor which formed the byre, and
an upper storey that served at once as kitchen, food-
boiling place for the cattle, and bedroom.      It was about
ten feet square, with the fireplace in the centre, and no
chimney.     The smoke, however, had hundreds of open
ings  for escape, since one could see the stars between the
rafters and the walls.     The bitterly cold mountain wind
blew in through these gaps.        I slept in a boarded-off
corner on a litter of fodder, with some sacking and an old
garment as covering.        The object of this excursion —
to examine the end of the little Dachstein glacier and its
terminal lake —was successfully accomplished.
    At Salzburg a halt was made in order to pay due
homage to the manes of Mozart, who from my boyhood
has been to me the greatest master of melodious music.
There was a pleasant little concert given in the Mozar-
teum, and one of his pieces was performed on the spinet
on which he himself used to play.            Innspruck was
reached in good time for the opening of the forty-third
meeting of the German Naturalists and Physicians.      Here,
among a number of acquaintances, it was a joy to find
Zirkel, also Wolff and Charles Martin ; pleasant likewise
to come into personal touch with two geologists whose
names were household words all over the scientific world
— the venerable leaders of Swiss geology, Studer and
 Escher von der Linth ; and to shake hands for the first
 time with Sandberger, Fuchs, Zittel, and others.        My
display of some sheets of our English Geological Survey,
accompanied with a brief explanation of them and of our
 methods of mapping, formed the subject of discussion
 at one of the meetings, when the maps were scrutinised
 with some minuteness and received due commendation.
    In the course of conversations with the members of

            DARWIN'S VIEWS IN AUSTRIA                           129
different Sections of the Association, and with professional
 men in Vienna, it was a surprise to find what a hold
Darwin's views, as expressed in his Origin of Species,
 had gained in Austria.         Again and again it was affirmed
that the men of science in that country had gone much
 further in their acceptance of these views than was yet
the case in the British Isles.              One acquaintance, a
              of       in
                                                          " You are
physician        note      Vienna,   remarked    to me,
still discussing in England whether or not the theory of
Darwin can be true. We have got a long way beyond
that stage here.       His theory is now our common starting-
point." This was the case not only in the domain of
science, but even in politics.         It was remarked that three
years ago,    after the  disastrous   termination   of the war with
Prussia, when the Austrian Parliament assembled to
deliberate on the reconsolidation of the empire, Professor
Rokitansky,       a distinguished       member of the Upper
                                                              "
Chamber, began a great speech with this sentence — The
question we have first to consider is whether Charles
Darwin is right or no." A great empire lay in dire dis
tress, and the form and method of its reconstruction were
proposed to be decided after a consideration of the truth
or error of the doctrine propounded by the English
naturalist.1     The decision arrived at by the politicians,
even if based on Darwinian lines, has proved to be
ineffectual in permanently cementing the irreconcilable
component parts of the Austrian empire which, in little
more than fifty years, has broken up into fragments
under the stress of the Great War of 1914-1918.
    From Innspruck by night diligence, twenty-six hours
of continuous travelling brought me to Bregenz, where a
short stay was made to allow of a good look at the delta of
the Rhine in the Lake of Constance.               The journey was
continued by Zurich and Lucerne to Solothurn, where
a few most instructive days were passed among the ridges,
ravines, and crests of the Jura mountains, in the company
of Professor Lang.
   1 A brief
             account of this meeting at Innspruck was given by me in
the first number of Nature, published on 4th November, 1869.

  130          LECTURES TO ARTIZANS
    In  the course   of the winter of 1869-70 I gave a short
                              "                          " to the
 course of lectures on the       Principles of Geology
 Industrial Classes at the Edinburgh Museum of Science
 and Art.     A novel feature in this course was the intro
 duction of excursions with the working men to some of
 the many places of geological interest in the immediate
neighbourhood of Edinburgh.           These artizans, like those
in London, were always pleasant to meet and to instruct ;
they seemed so keen to learn and asked such intelligent
questions.     They mustered in good number at these
lectures, and one could not but hope that some among
them would be led to take up the study of the subject
as   a  relaxation in such leisure as their daily labour
allowed.
    Up to the year 1870, when in Edinburgh, I continued
to live with my parents.        As this town had now become
my permanent headquarters, I realised that it would be
more convenient, both to my family and myself, were I
to set up a separate establishment.            The picturesque
octagonal    house,  known    as  Ramsay Lodge, standing on
the northern slope of the ridge which culminates, a little
to the west, in the abrupt rock, crowned with Edinburgh
Castle, had long taken my fancy as a most enviable abode.
Rising out of an extensive area of public garden grounds
in the very centre of the city, it not only overlooked the
New Town but commanded a view of the whole range of
hills from the distant peaks of the Trossachs on the west,
along the chain of the Ochils and the uplands of Fife on
the north, eastwards to the May Island in the North
Sea.     Besides the attraction of the site, the literary
associations    of the house appealed strongly to one's
historic sense.     It was built in the middle of the eigh
teenth century by Allan Ramsay the Scottish poet, as a
suburban residence, wherein he spent the later years of his
life, and where he died in 1757. The quaint octagonal
shape of the main part of the building may have reminded
some of the poet's friends of Swift's sarcastic account of
Sir John Vanbrugh's house at Whitehall           as
                "
                  A thing resembling a goose-pie,"

     PROPOSAL ABOUT LIPARI ISLANDS                              131
for they appear to have given it this appellation.               Its
oddity of form, however, was much diminished by the
poet's son, the eminent portrait painter, who added a new
front and a wing, and in other ways made the dwelling
                           He died in                      "
more commodious.1                                     The goose-
      " was afterwards the residence of1784. Dr. Baird, Principal
pie
of Edinburgh University from 1793 to 1840. In the
spring of 1870, hearing that this attractive house was
soon to be vacant,     I secured the tenancy.
     Mr. George Julius Poulett-Scrope, already mentioned,
was well known to the public as a writer of political
pamphlets, but to a smaller circle he stood among the
geologists of his day, as one of the highest authorities on
volcanic problems, who also surpassed even Lyell in his
recognition of the efficacy of denudation in carving out
the present surface of the land.         He sent me at this time
                                  "
a letter in which he wrote — I have long wished it were
possible to induce some thoroughly competent geologist,
with clear ideas on the character of volcanic action, and a
sound and quick judgment as a field-observer, with the
power of reporting clearly what he sees, to undertake an
examination of the volcanic districts of Southern Italy,
but especially the Lipari Islands.          I am too old myself,
and disabled by loss of eyesight creeping upon me, or I
should like nothing so much as to undertake this job,
which circumstances have for many years hindered me
from doing, sorely against my will."                  After stating
some of the questions to be investigated and, if possible,
                             "
solved, he continued — I have so much at heart the
obtaining a sound and impartial opinion on these points
that I should be happy to contribute, say two hundred
pounds, towards the expense of their exploration by a
competent geologist, such as I have described above.
                                   " The letter
Can you help in the matter ?                          ended with an
   1 Both father and son were commemorated, without sarcasm, by
Churchill :
        Thence came the Ramsays, names of worthy note,
        Of whom one paints, as well as t'other wrote.
                                       Prophecy of Famine, 125.

132        VISIT TO THOMAS CARLYLE
apology for his appeal that I should myself undertake the
proposed investigation.
   This tempting proposition, so entirely consonant with
one's geological tastes, could not be accepted without
much reflection.       Besides my own personal affairs,
having just   taken   a   house and being in the middle of
putting order and furniture into           the official chiefs had
                                         it,
to be consulted.      In the end, however, all difficulties
were removed.       My eldest sister undertook to look
after the furnishing of the house.         Leave of absence was
granted by the authorities from the middle of March
until 3rd June, so that April and May could be spent in
the Mediterranean area, after the spring gales were over,
and before the heat of summer had set in.
   Among the few days spent in London on the journey,
one remains deeply impressed on my memory.                    With
Alexander Macmillan       I  called one afternoon on Thomas
Carlyle at his house      inChelsea.     When the door of No.
5  Cheyne   Row    was    opened    by   a little housemaid, the
philosopher himself was seen standing at the far end of the
narrow lobby, looking as       if  he would rather receive no
callers. As soon     as   he recognised my friend, however,
he came forward to meet us.            He was wearing     a   black
velvet cap,  a grey coat or dressing-gown that reached to
his feet, and had     a  long clay-pipe        inhis mouth.      He
brought   into  the  room     pipes  and   tobacco,    but  finding
that we did not wish to smoke, he led us upstairs to his
drawing-room — quaint little chamber, with
                  a                                   a     number
of antique pictures    on   the  walls, some    of  them, perhaps,
portraits  of   Mrs.     Carlyle's   forbears,     and   with old-
fashioned nick-nacks dotted over the room.               The grate
with Dutch   tiles up   each  side  of the  fireplace,  the antique
chairs and the various stools were all in excellent har
mony, and one could see that some woman's hand, guided
by good taste, had attended to the furnishing of the room.
Mrs. Carlyle had died four years before this time.
   But the man himself was the chief centre of attraction.
He sat between us right in front of the fire. Fortunately
he was in the mood to talk, and soon found himself

             CARLYLE'S CONVERSATION                                133
dealing with Daniel Wilson's recently published bio
graphy of Chatterton, which in his opinion gave too
flattering a portraiture of the poet.               He looked on
 Chatterton as one who never seemed to get into the
essence and truth of things, but was more taken up with
the roll, and the marching, and the trumpet-clang.                 He
passed on to David Gray, the poor Scottish poet, who, he
said, had something in him, but lost himself from the
foolish desire to be famous.             No one, he thought, has
any business to wish to be famous, but should be content
to do his own work honestly and well.               He enlarged on
                     "
the "jackassery         of the world in its craving for novels.
    Incidentally, too, he gave us some graphic glimpses of
scenes in his own life.          He remembered having climbed
the Lomond Hills of Fife with Edward Irving, and found
the Ordnance Survey sappers at work there, one of them
a surly fellow, who at last was fairly won over by Irving's
imperturbable good nature.              His college days at Edin
burgh came into his mind as he chatted.                  He laughed
when he gave us some of his reminiscences of the lectures
of Robert Jameson, the Professor of Natural History at
the University.         He said that Jameson had never done
him any good, had no power of interesting him in the
subject, and rambled so widely from one topic to another
that it was hardly possible to follow him.                  Thus the
Professor would suddenly stop in the middle of some
                             " We shall now
details, and exclaim,                            consider the order
 Glires," whereat, as he          recalled    the incident, Carlyle
                                                               " dwelt
roared with laughter, adding how the Professor
upon the four chisel teeth."               Jameson was probably
somewhat dry as a lecturer.            There can be no doubt that
he had the reputation of being rigidly methodical in his
prelections ; but he certainly had the merit of inspiring
some of his pupils (Edward Forbes and others) with a
love of natural science.         Yet we can well understand how
he might repel the future author of Sartor Resartus.1
   1 In one of his
                   early letters, written while he was attending Edin
burgh University, Carlyle states that he had heard two of Jameson's
lectures, but they made so bad an impression on him that he was

134          THE " TOBACCO PARLIAMENTS "
     From Edinburgh and its University the talk branched
off into the south-western Lowlands of Scotland, whence
I was able to tell him some anecdotes of Ayrshire lairds
and clergymen, and had the gratification of evoking from
him such peals of laughter as I hardly ever heard before.
He seemed sorry when we rose to leave, came down to
the door with us, halting two or three times on the stair
case to ask questions about the rocks of his native
Dumfriesshire.
    Alexander Macmillan at this time kept open house
on the evening of Thursday at his warehouse in London,
where he welcomed all friends and acquaintances who
                                                  " tobacco
liked to talk and to smoke. These                              parlia
          "
ments        grew in popularity as, with the increase of the
business of the firm, his circle of authors became ever
wider.       They began in Henrietta Street, Covent Garden,
and were continued in the larger premises which were
successively occupied in Bedford Street.              The company
was often a brilliant one, in which representatives of
literature, science, art, politics, and the services mingled
together.        I enjoyed them when occasion took me to
London,        and   before dense tobacco smoke painfully
affected my eyes.
    Travelling rapidly through France to Marseilles, I
                                                               " nor'-
caught a steamboat for Italy and came in for a fierce
          "
easter      on the way, which lashed the grey Mediterranean
into a state of rage that seemed to a newcomer quite
unworthy of its popular reputation for colour and calm.
The vessel was some nine hours late in reaching Civita
Vecchia, with its gingerbread fortifications in charge of
French soldiers ; for we were now in the Papal States,
which France was protecting.                 The slow, slovenly
ways of the papal régime became manifest even before
we were allowed to land.             Our passports were taken
 from us to be examined on shore. When at last we were
 permitted to follow them, the scene at the passport office
 gave us further experience of the ways of Pio Nono's
 doubtful whether   he ought to attend the class at all. Early  Letters,
 vol. i, p. 192.

         THE OECUMENICAL COUNCIL                             135
functionaries.     My passport was not to be found,
though my name was properly inserted in the list of
arrivals.    I had seen the tail-end of a piece of green silk
projecting from the folds of the passport which one of the
passengers was putting into his pocket.           I asked him to
open his document, and there was my passport enclosed
within it. Had the precious piece of green silk, on which
the passport was pasted, been lost, with its Foreign Office
attestation,   duly signed by Lord Stanley, my journey
would doubtless have been seriously interrupted, if not
stopped altogether.
    It was the year of the great Oecumenical Council at
Rome.      The Eternal City literally swarmed with ecclesi
astics who were arriving by every train, and disembarking
at the small, ill-contrived, and unswept central station
of the Papal Dominions. The streets were crowded
with cardinals, archbishops, bishops, abbots,
                      Eremites and friars,
          White, black and grey, with all their trumpery,
gathered     together from every corner of the globe.
Although much tempted to linger here a while, I had to
content myself with a stay of only two or three days,
during which, thanks to Mr. Pentland, at that time the
great resident English authority on Rome (to whom
Murchison had given me an introduction), I saw the chief
pagan antiquities, and more especially the excavations
then in progress upon the Palatine.        It was an entrancing
first experience to watch the workmen digging through
the fifteen or twenty feet of rubbish which had accumu
lated in the course of centuries, and uncovering the walls
of the imperial palaces with their frescoes still fresh upon
them ; to witness the revealing of ancient pavements
worn smooth long centuries ago by the print of feet and
the roll of chariot wheels, and to see from time to time
pieces of pottery, rings, bone-pins, coins, lamps, or
fragments of glass, and whole wine-jars, come up out
of the earth.      All these objects were being carefully
collected and examined, and the best of them would

  136   ASCENT OF VESUVIUS— PRESTWICH
 doubtless find a resting-place in one or other of the
 museums of the city.
     At Rome it was my good fortune to meet M. De
 Verneuil. Murchison's companion in Russia, and my
 friend Joseph Prestwich, President of the Geological
 Society.   They invited me to accompany them in a
 geological excursion up the Anio to look at sections of
 the old alluvial deposits of that river.  The blending in
 one's mind of geological facts with thoughts of Horace
 and his praeceps Anio gave to the excursion a singular
mingling of attractions.
    Hastening to Naples, I took the opportunity to make
acquaintance with the general features of the extinct
volcanic cones of the Campi Phlegraei, and could not
resist the temptation to give a day to Pompeii.         Mr.
Prestwich and his charming wife, now on their wedding
tour, also came to Naples, where he and I agreed to make
the ascent of Vesuvius together.       With an intelligent
guide we climbed to the edge of the crater on 8th April,
and on the way had a good look at some of the various
lava streams that have successively descended the flanks
of the mountain. We slept, or rather tried to sleep, at
the Hermitage, not an attractive lodging, and were glad
to resume the journey next morning.       Descending from
the Observatory ridge, we crossed the lava-field of the
Fosse Veterano, and climbed the rugged interior front
of Monte Somma, studying with keen enjoyment the
succession of lava-sheets of which the precipice has been
built up; and the innumerable vertical dykes of intruded
lava which have filled the open fissures made at successive
eruptions.    Not less interesting was the descent on the
northern side of the mountain, in one of the deep ravines
which the rains of many centuries have carved out of the
crumbling declivities.    Rain began to fall in torrents ere
we reached the village where we had arranged that a
carriage from Naples should meet us. Before we had
started on the little expedition, Mrs. Prestwich gave me
many injunctions to keep her husband out of danger, and
I had the satisfaction of presenting him to her at their

          LIPARI AND MALARIAL FEVER                          137
 hotel, not only safe and sound, but like myself delighted
and instructed by our trip.        There was perhaps some
 reason for a little anxiety on the part of strangers — we
were aware that bandits infested this district only a few
 years before.     Professor John Phillips, of Oxford, who
came to Vesuvius in 1868 dared not venture to go where
we went.       We saw some suspicious-looking fellows at
 Ottajano, but were not in any way molested.
    At Naples it was a great pleasure to meet the illustrious
and venerable Mrs. Somerville, now nearly ninety years
of age, and her two daughters. She was still in the full
possession     of her faculties, and being interested in
volcanic matters, discussed with me the projected visit
to the Lipari Islands.       Professor Guiscardi of Naples,
who placed his local knowledge at my service in the
Phlegraean Fields, likewise gave me useful information
for my guidance among the islands, furnishing me also
with an introduction to one of the higher ecclesiastics at
Lipari.
    A  pleasant but brief voyage brings the traveller from
Naples to Messina, whence a vessel landed me at Lipari
on 17th April.        Unfortunately, either at Rome or at
Naples, I had caught one of the forms of malarial fever,
which showed itself only after I had arrived at my
destination.     Not knowing what ailed me, but anxious
to get to work, I spent three days in a preliminary
examination of the nearer parts of the island, and a fourth
in an excursion to Volcano and Volcanello.               On the
evening    of that last day I had  some  difficulty  in  walking
back to the miserable locanda.        Hardly    able   to stand,
I went to bed, and the courier, whom I had taken with
me from Naples, sent for a doctor.          In a short while,
various residents found their way into the bedroom, and
sat discussing my condition and the object of my visit, two
or three speaking at a time, and filling the place with their
kindly-meant but trying noise.       At last the doctor came,
the crowd was dismissed, and after the usual examina
tion, he pronounced the case to be one of what he called
"
   rheumatismal fever."

 138          A SPORTSMAN PHYSICIAN
    The doctor was a young graduate from Naples who
spoke French fairly well, and all our talk was in that
language.      He was remarkably attentive, usually visiting
his patient twice a day, and prescribing
                                                  "
                                                     sweating-
          " on a
potions           gigantic scale, for they filled flagons like
bedroom ewers.       The food of the little inn being poor,
he kindly supplemenied it from time to time with a
present of quails, which, ' being a keen sportsman, he
would shoot in the leisure hours that seemed to form the
greater part of his time.      He did his best to keep up
one's spirits by the assurance that he looked forward to
the resumption of my researches in a few days.       But week
succeeded week with varying diminutions and accessions
of the fever, and with a continuous loss of bodily strength.
Had I come entirely on my own errand, I would have
tried to get back to Messina and take a homeward-bound
steamboat for Marseilles.      But as long as there was the
least hope of being able to fulfil the duty entrusted by
Mr. Scrope, one felt bound to remain in Lipari. Towards
the end of a month, however, most of which had been
passed in bed, it had become impossible for me to make
any bodily exertion.      Only with difficulty could I walk
up and down my room.
    Eventually, the fever having somewhat abated, with
my kind doctor's full consent, I embarked on a south
bound steamboat on 1 8th May and landed at Messina on
the same day.       A French boat was to call there next
morning, and I arranged to start by it. But the end of the
trial was not yet.    The landlord of the hotel, seeing my
feebleness,   and  hearing that I meant to leave so soon,
unknown to me, asked his medical attendant to come and
see me.     I did not know who it was that introduced him
self pleasantly, and began to enquire about my doings in
Lipari.    He explained that he was a medical man, and
asked that he might feel my pulse.        When he had done
so, he said very gravely that it was quite out of the ques
tion, if I valued my life, to start for France next morning,
for I was in a high state of fever.       When the morning
came, instead of embarking for Marseilles, I was in bed,

  ACCELERATION OF FEVER AT MESSINA                       139
delirious and quite unconscious of my surroundings.        I
have no recollection of that day, or of how long time may
have intervened before my senses were regained.            I
learnt afterwards that the landlord had brought to my
room such English people as he could find, to see if they
knew me and could communicate with my friends.             I
still remember with a shudder some of the visions that
haunted me in the delirium.          The first incident that
remains in my memory of what occurred after conscious
ness returned, was the visit of a kind Italian, who came
and sponged my face and hands, and spoke to me in
English with a strong American accent.            He was a
Sicilian, named Victor Calorese, who had spent some
time in the United States, where he had naturalised him
self as an American citizen.     He had come back to his
native island, and was now acting as a courier at the hotel.
From his cottage on the hills above Messina he came down
each morning, with his pockets filled with oranges from
his little garden, which he peeled for me, and he took
much pains to discover in the hotel any kind of food that
I could take.
   The Messina doctor continued to pay his daily visit, but
could give no assurance of when the homeward journey
could be resumed.        The complaint seemed to have
settled down into what Juvenal calls a
                                              " domesticated
fever."    At last my faithful Sicilian came to me one day
and pressed me to leave Messina, otherwise recovery was
impossible.    He assured me that if I would go, he would
come with me to London.            In spite of the doctor's
opposition we embarked on 31st May in a Messageries
ImpeYiales steamboat for Marseilles.
   The handwriting of my letters had been growing in
creasingly unsteady, and had become so shaky in the last
brief note, written on the day of my arrival at Messina,
that the cessation of further communications gave rise to
much anxiety at home.        Sir Roderick Murchison got
Lord   Clarendon   at the Foreign Office to telegraph to the
British Consul at Messina for information.        The reply
by telegram came that I had left that place.

14o        RETURN TO RAMSAY LODGE
   Landing at Marseilles on 3rd June we took train next
day   for Paris, which was reached in the midst of the
political excitement that preceded the outbreak of the
Franco-Prussian    war.    Without lingering there for a
day, we pushed on for London, and Calorese delivered
me safely at the suburban residence of my friend Alex
ander Macmillan.      The kind-hearted and capable Sicilian
went straight back to his native island, assured of my life
long gratitude.    I kept in touch with him for some years,
and then lost trace of him.
   It was a week or two before the journey to Scotland
could be undertaken.      One of the earliest friends to pay
me a visit was Sir Roderick Murchison, who, not wholly
reassured   by the sight of me, asked Dr. Charles
Murchison, the chief authority on fevers, to overhaul me
and report to him.        The middle of June, however,
found me established in my new home in Ramsay
Lodge. While regaining strength there, I was able to
form one of a quiet dinner party at Professor Masson's
house, to meet Thomas Carlyle who was his guest at the
time.    The sage was in excellent form, except when the
scream of the railway whistle from the valley below
reached his ear.    He would then launch forth a torrent of
vituperation on the noises that made life unendurable in a
city. But he soon became vivacious again, and laughed, as
only he could, at various Scots stories that were told to him.
   But the poison of the Lipari fever had not yet been
eradicated from the system.          Before long a severe
recrudescence of   it brought  a renewed prostration.     The
best authority on fevers in Edinburgh, Dr. Warburton
Begbie, was called in, who took the case thoroughly in
hand.     By careful treatment, the virulence of the relapse
was gradually reduced, though the fever germs were even
then not wholly eradicated, for they asserted themselves
at intervals afterwards for no less than seventeen years.
There now came yet a final trial in the form of abscesses
on the bone which required surgical treatment.           Thus
month after month slipped away, during which I lay for
the most part on the sofa, prisoner in my own house.

    FRANCO-GERMAN WAR— AMI BOUE                            14 1
   Fortunately, in spite of this disablement, it was now
possible to get all the threads of the Survey work once
more in hand, except the inspection in the field.           By
degrees  also one   could   take  up again a  task  which  had
been entrusted to me by my lamented friend, J. B. Jukes,
some time before his death in 1869.         When his health
began seriously   to  fail, he  had asked  me   to relieve him
of the labour of revising the text of his Student's Manual
of Geology for the third edition of the work.       When the
revision, which had been begun during the previous
winter, was now resumed, much more change was found
to be requisite than had been anticipated, some of the
chapters having to be largely altered, and more than one
to be practically rewritten.     Hence when the volume was
published in October 1871 it was in many respects a new
book.
   The autumn of 1870 was overshadowed by the great
Franco-German War, which we all watched with feverish
anxiety.   At first, in ignorance of the true cause of the
outbreak, as afterwards revealed, many were inclined to
blame the French for having declared war, but as the
contest turned against them my sympathies were increas
ingly on their side. The correspondence with Ami Boue"
revealed how a man could be affected who had relatives
on both sides of the combatants.      A passage may be given
                                                         "
here from the letter he wrote on 21st November :           The
dreadful war pre-occupation did take me all time for
thinking at scientific matter, and now perhaps that distress
will approach till nearer our abode ! When you will
know that I have very good and near Parents in both
armies, and you perceive the possibility of parents killing
themselves without recognising themselves, nor having
the opportunity to do so, you will understand that I have
often headach, when I ride the newspapers or hear from
the quite useless slaughters which have been prosecuted
only by those men at the head of the human society.           I
have parents in Paris ; other exiled in Spain, in England,
in Switzerland.     The country-houses of some by Paris
are German hospitals or barracks."

  142     CHAIR OF GEOLOGY AT EDINBURGH
     At Edinburgh during the winter of 1870-71 there arose
 a  little domestic excitement in educational circles on the
 subject of the erection of a Chair of Geology at the
 University. Dr. Allman, on 26th August, had intimated
 his desire to resign the Professorship of Natural History,
 which included geology within its scope.      The wish had
 long been expressed, more strongly since the death of
 Edward Forbes, that advantage should be taken of the
 first vacancy to separate the department of Geology and
 Mineralogy and to make it the business of a new Chair,
 leaving Zoology as the main subject of the Natural
 History professorship.    It was a matter of common talk
 that Sir Roderick Murchison intended to found and endow
 such a Chair, and he himself often spoke to me on the
 subject, saying that he would like to do this in his native
 Scotland, and to see me the first Professor.   Preliminary
steps had now been taken to carry out his design, when
 further progress was suddenly arrested on 2 1 st November
 by an attack of paralysis which struck the old Chief down.
 For a while it was doubtful if he would recover. But in
an enfeebled condition he continued to live for nearly a
year longer.     He had provided in his will for the endow
ment of the proposed Chair, but he now desired to have it
established in his lifetime.    He applied to the Govern
ment to divide the Natural History Professorship at
Edinburgh into two, and to consider Geology and
Mineralogy as the subjects of a new Professorship,
towards the endowment of which he offered to con
tribute £6000, on the understanding that he should
nominate the first Professor.    Owing to the state of his
health and certain official difficulties, the negotiations
were protracted for some months.        The Home Office
objected to the donor of a large part of the endowment
having the nomination of the first Professor, on the ground
that this would infringe the prerogative of the Crown.
The Science and Art Department objected to the holder
of the Professorship retaining his post as Director of the
Geological Survey of Scotland.      With such a Scylla and
Charybdis in front, it seemed for a time that the Chair

     THE FIRST PROFESSOR APPOINTED                         143
 would not be created.       When     its establishment was
 eventually secured, the official objections to my appoint
 ment appeared too formidable to be overcome.          As long
 as he was able, Murchison fought stoutly against the
 contentions of the two Government Departments, and
when he could himself no longer fight, his views were
 strongly supported by several of his influential friends, and
 especially by Dr. Lyon Playfair, Member for Edinburgh
 University. After many weeks of correspondence, inter
views and negotiations, the following note came to me :
                                  The Athenaeum,
                                       15 February, 1871.
 My dear Professor,
            I have the pleasure of  being the first person to
call you by that title, as I have just returned from the
Home Office, with the assurance that your name will be
immediately submitted to the Queen for formal approval.
 I wish you all joy in your new appointment. Tell
Prof. Wilson.
                     Yours sincerely,
                                          Lyon Playfair.
    The creation of a Chair of Geology at Edinburgh could
not but awaken memories of the time, nearly a century
by-past, when, in this city, a brilliant band of geologists,
 including James Hutton, John Playfair and James Hall,
placed this science on a firm basis of observation and
experiment, and founded what has been known as the
Huttonian, Plutonist or Scottish School ; when the
antagonistic Neptunist doctrines of the Saxon Professor,
Abraham Gottlob Werner, were introduced into the
Edinburgh University by his devoted pupil Robert
                                                         " the
Jameson, and when, as Brewster has remarked,
rival theories of Fire and Water were discussed with all
the warmth or even bitterness of political or theological
controversy."     With the ultimate discomfiture of the
Neptunists and the triumph of the Plutonists, geological
zeal gradually died down in Scotland.        Principal J. D.

 144     SCOTTISH GEOLOGICAL SCHOOL
Forbes, who in his youth may have shared in the con
troversy, used in later life to contemplate with much regret
the decay of geological enthusiasm in his native country.
In an impressive address given to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh on 1st December, 1862, he found full
                                  " It is a                  " that
expression for this regret.                  fact," he said,
the Scottish Geological School, which once made Edin
burgh famous, especially when the Vulcanist and Nep
tunian War raged simultaneously in the hall of this
Society and in the class-rooms of the University, may now
almost be said to have been transported bodily to Bur
lington House.        Roderick Murchison, Charles Lyell,
Leonard Horner, are Scottish names, and the bearers are
Scottish in everything, save residence.               Our younger
men are drafted off as soon as their aquirements become
known.     Professor Ramsay was early called from his
voluntary labours in Arran to English soil ; and we only
retain the services which our townsman, Mr. Geikie,
volunteers for our instruction, so long as the central
forces of Jermyn Street suffer him to linger within the
Scottish borders.      Others, who still reside in Scotland,
not unnaturally seek a larger audience, and a more rapid
publicity for their memoirs, by transmitting them to
London. This is reasonable and inevitable. . . . Of all
the changes which have befallen Scottish science during
the last half century, that which I most deeply deplore,
and at the same time wonder at, is the progressive decay
of our once illustrious Geological School. Centralisation
may account for it in part, but not entirely." 1
   Had the revered Principal lived three years longer he
would have rejoiced over the introduction of Geology
as a distinct department of study in his old University of
Edinburgh, with the prospect that the science which he
had himself prosecuted in his earlier years, and in the
promotion of which he remained keenly interested up to
the end, would now have a better chance of being
domesticated once more in Scotland.                     My earnest
intention certainly was to do what in me lay towards
            1
              Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin., vol. v. (1862), p. 17.

              MARRIAGE ENGAGEMENT                             145
recovering the ground which he thought that we had lost
                  " The central
in Scotland.                        forces of Jermyn Street,"
                                         " to
which he dreaded, suffered me                  linger within the
                    "
Scottish borders      for ten years after the time at which he
wrote.    They were years of hard work mainly devoted
to the investigation of the geological structure of Scotland,
and, if that might be, to the restoration of the fame of the
Scottish School.
    The Royal Warrant creating the Chair of Geology in
the University of Edinburgh, and appointing the first
Professor was issued on 10th March, 1871, with the
bold signature of Queen Victoria at its head.          I was duly
inducted at the meeting of Senatus on the 25th of that
month.      Thus the early premonition that I would return
to the University as Professor was at last fulfilled.        How
it was to come about remained always dark, and I would
                                                   " An me
sometimes ask myself Horace's question,                      ludit
                       "
amabilis insania ?         The fond illusion, however, had
become a reality, and looking backwards one could now
see how one incident after another, though unsuspectedly
at the time, had brought about its accomplishment.
    In the first half of the year 1 8 7 1 I was thrice summoned
to London on urgent business, partly in connection with a
contested Parliamentary Bill for bringing a fresh water-
supply to Edinburgh.          I took advantage of one of these
visits to make an offer of marriage to a young lady whom
 I had met the year before and of whom I this year saw a
good deal more.       Alice Gabrielle Pignatel lived with her
mother and two older sisters not far from the residence
of my old friend, Alexander Macmillan, at whose house I
made her acquaintance.          Her mother was English : her
father, who had recently died, belonged to a branch of the
Pignatelli family of Southern Italy, which had migrated
into France some generations before and had settled in
Lyons as merchants. Her cousin, Victor Pignatel, was
one of the Directors of the Crédit Lyonnais Bank in Lyons
and Paris.      I was first captivated by her beauty and the
 charm of her voice as she sang, but soon still more by the
 gentleness and gaiety of her nature.            She accepted my
     A,G.                         K

   146   BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT EDINBURGH
  hand, and the wedding was arranged to take place in the
  following August.
     After all the vexations arising from the unfortunate
  Italian journey there was a delightful sense of restored
 liberty and renewed strength in resuming inspection work
  in the field, and more especially in the wide region of
 Galloway.     Several members of the staff were now at
 work in this part of the country, where much ruggedness
 and wildness, almost equal to that of the Highlands, is
 combined with broad strips of lowland moor, well-
 cultivated valleys, interesting little towns and villages and
 a wonderfully varied coast-line whence, in clear weather,
 the Isle of Man and the hills of Antrim can be seen.
     The British Association for the Advancement of
 Science met for the third time in Edinburgh on ioth
 August this year, with Sir William Thomson (afterwards
 Lord Kelvin) as President.          The Council had again
 elected  me  President   of the   Geological Section, and the
 Local Committee entrusted me with the selection,
 arrangement and conduct of the geological excursions.
Arthur's Seat was chosen for an afternoon walk, while
 for the scene of our more distant ramble on foot, it was
arranged to take the picturesque coast-line from the
 Siccar Point to Fast Castle in Berwickshire — ground
classic in the history of geology.    The starting point of this
walk was easily reached by railway to Cockburnspath, but
the distance to Fast Castle, the furthest point, was too
great for the average pedestrian.        The long line of sea
cliff would have been best viewed from small row-boats,
but as this mode of locomotion was impracticable, we
lingered for a little at the cliffs about the Siccar Point, and
then the less athletic members of the company found seats
on country carts which had been procured from farms in
the neighbourhood.        The party numbered about 120
and included a good many ladies.          There was sufficient
accommodation in the carts for all who did not care to
walk, and the day turned out wonderfully fine. The crisp
sea air, the striking range of cliff scenery, with its plicated
rocks, the lonely ruin of Fast Castle and its association

 WEDDING TOUR ON THE CONTINENT                            147
with the Bride of Lammermuir, the unwonted ride on
straw in lumbering carts along a rough road, the plain but
ample luncheon, and the general hilarity of everybody
combined to make the excursion eminently successful.
It was at a gathering of the " Red Lions " during this
meeting of the British Association           that Alexander
Nicolson, already mentioned (p. 38), produced and sang
to the tune of
                 " The British Grenadiers " his verses on
the British Association,      which have often enlivened
                              "
subsequent dinners of the       Lions."
   There was just time, after the close of this meeting,
to reach London before the 17th August, the date fixed
for my marriage.     Our wedding tour began by a journey
to Bonn in order to attend the Beethoven Festival there,
for which my wife, being ardently musical, had secured
tickets some time before.     We lingered for a while among
the little picturesque towns on the Rhine, diverging to
Heidelberg and halting at Strasburg, now in the posses
sion of the Germans.       We drove through parts of that
town which had been most battered by the recent bom
bardment — a melancholy spectacle, whole acres of streets,
houses, shops, and public buildings involved in one com
mon ruin.      On the houses still standing hundreds of
bullets had left their pittings, while here and there a shell
had riven a large hole in a solid wall of masonry. But
perhaps the most striking feature of the place to our eyes
was the swagger of the Prussian officers on the pavements,
and still more within the hotel.       They let it be plainly
seen that they were the lords and masters of the place,
and that their pleasure and convenience must first be
considered.
   After a short and quiet tour through Switzerland we
crossed into France in order to pay a visit to my wife's
relatives near Lyons.     Her cousin, Victor Pignatel, met
us at the railway station and drove us to the old family
home, the Chateau de St. Didier, on the upland a few
miles from the city.     There we were overwhelmed with
kindness,   and    I  made     my first acquaintance with
domestic life in France.     Victor's mother, now an elderly,
                                                              '

148             FRENCH FAMILY LIFE
but still active lady, was the central figure of the whole
household, and around her in separate suites of rooms,
but under the same capacious roof, covering three sides
of a square, her son and his family, and her daughters
and their families were all accommodated beneath her
beneficent sway.       It was the French custom, she said,
for a newly married couple to be placed next each other
at table for a year and a day, after which they were
rigorously separated.
    On our way home we again came upon the track of the
German invaders ; at Dijon there was a guard of Prussian
soldiers at the station, and once more, as we approached
Paris, the spiked helmets were to be seen garrisoning Fort
Charenton.      On reaching Paris I found a telegram urging
my speedy return to London, as Sir Roderick Murchison
was much worse, and had repeatedly expressed his wish to
see me.     We at once hurried back. The lapse of the
few weeks since I was with him in August had produced
a marked and sad change.            His speech had become so
indistinct that even his nephew, who assiduously watched
him, sometimes could not make out what he said.                His
face brightened with the old smile as I sat down beside
him for the last time.         There was something that he
wished to say, but he tried in vain to express it.         He then
had recourse to the pencil, with which for a week or two
 he had been able to make his wants known to those about
 him.    But the fingers could no longer form any intelli
 gible writing.     His eyes filled with tears, and he sank
 back into his chair.     Three weeks later, on 22 nd October,
 he quietly and almost imperceptibly passed away.1
    His death deprived me of the greatest benefactor and
 one of the warmest friends I ever had.              Having known
 him in almost every variety of intercourse, I had ample
 opportunity of forming a just judgment of his character,
 which I have tried to express in the Life of him.
 Underneath a somewhat pompous manner he carried
 a most kindly heart, and many were the friendly acts by
 which, to my knowledge, he assisted others. To myself
                   Life of Murchison, vol. ii. p.
                 1
                                                  343.

              DEATH OF MURCHISON                       149
from the very first interview he was uniformly sym
pathetic and helpful, treating me more like a son than a
subordinate member of his staff.
   He was buried in Brompton Cemetery beside his wife.
I returned to London for the funeral. In the carriage
in which I was placed there sat Mr. Gladstone, Prime
Minister (who talked most of the time, partly about an
East Anglian poet of whom I had never heard and whose
name I have entirely forgotten, partly on other matters
of literary interest, with stray questions on geology and
Murchison), Mr. John Murray, Murchison's publisher,
and one of his Executors, and Trenham Reeks, Registrar
of the School of Mines, another of the Executors.    I was
asked to return to the house in Belgrave Square where
the will was read.      I then learnt from it that I was
nominated Literary Executor with a legacy of £1000.

                      CHAPTER VI
     CREATION OF A CHAIR OF GEOLOGY IN THE
              UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH
                         (1871-1882)
On 6th November, 187 1, the newly-created Department
of Geology and Mineralogy in the University of Edin
                                                       " The
burgh was opened with an inaugural discourse on
Scottish School of Geology."       To most of the audience
it was probably unknown that geological science had once
been strenuously pursued in Edinburgh, and that several
of its Scottish cultivators of that time are now, all over
the world, reckoned among the founders of the science.
The subject was chosen for the discourse with the view
of setting in clear light the work accomplished by these
early observers, as a stimulus to follow their example.
The same hills and valleys, the same crags and rocky
shores which inspired them, were still making their mute
appeal to the present generation, and were teaching the
same lessons which these great men were the first to
understand.    The establishment of a Chair of Geology in
Edinburgh by a distinguished Scotsman, Sir Roderick
Murchison, afforded an opportunity for combined and
sedulous work, such as had not been previously obtain
able in Scotland.     It was the Professor's earnest hope
that with diligence and enthusiasm on his part, and
responsive activity on the part of the students, the renown
of the old Scottish Geological School might yet be
revived.
   It so happened that there was still living a survivor
of those who studied geology in Scotland when the
                             150

                LETTER FROM AMI BOUE                             i$t
Scottish School was at the height of its renown — Ami
Boue\       I sent him a copy of the inaugural lecture, in
which he was himself alluded to.           From his characteristic
reply     dated     3rd December, 1871, I extract a few
sentences     :
    "
      You must think I          am already sleeping in my grave ;
receive my excuses for my negligence.             When I did not
write, I did not forget you.           I advice in time Hauer of
your new Professorship by Murchison munificence.                     I
wrote about it a letter of sincere thank to Murchison for
himself.        Now I sended to Hauer your good-styled
Inaugural        lecture and your well-combined            Syllabus.
                                             J
Your Geological Map of Edinburgh recalled me all my
58 year ago made excursions ; but what a progress since
that time !        I had not the idea of the possibility to arrive
at such a perfect map for such a complicated part of Land.
My best congratulations I What a guide for students !
Middle Scotland is the country in whole world which has
the most been burst and dislocated by plutonic-volcanic
action, yet South and North Scotland remained united !
    " Your
                Inaugural Speech recall me that I was con
temporaneous of Hall, Playfair, Macculloch, Dugald
Stewart, Leslie, Neill, Ellis, Brewster, Wilson.                   Sir
James     Hall    turn   soon   during my stay   at Edinburgh, to
become half-mad or very excentric at least.            But Playfair
house was my very friendly abode ; what a clear mathe
matical head he was ! With Macculloch I travel in the
Hebrides ; I sailed in his cutter around Arran.              I think
that the scientific world generally did not pay him the
attention due to his knowledge ; his particular inter
course, his sarcastic elocutions may have injured his
reputation.2 Then he was to little attracted by the newer
progress of science.          His work made the effect of having
already     attained    the   limits of possible petrological and
geological knowledge.             Old Dugald Stewart I visited
in his mansion in Linlithgowshire and spent some
   1 This
           map accompanied my Presidential   Address to the Geological
Section of the British Association.
   • See pp. 54, 127.

 152      EDINBURGH GEOLOGICAL CHAIR
instructive days in that scientific house with his wife and
daughter."
    The new Professorship of Geology was placed in the
Faculty of Arts, no Faculty of Science having yet been
established in the University.       Geology, being practi
cally a new subject in the curriculum of the studies of the
University, was not as yet required for any examination
or degree.    Consequently the class in which it was taught
might be expected to be attended only by students who
had both a liking for the study, and time to give to it ;
perhaps also by a few leisured outsiders with the same
taste.    It was therefore gratifying that the class num
bered upwards of forty in the first year of its history.
    The Professor started under difficulties which are
probably always more or less unavoidable at the intro
duction of a novel branch of tuition into an old edu
cational establishment which is only sparingly endowed.
 He had no lecture-room for himself, but shared one with
 two other professors.    This room was quite unsuited for
 the teaching of his subject.        Moreover, it could be
 entered only half-an-hour before his hour of lecture, the
 diagrams and specimens of the previous occupant having
 first to be removed.     With some difficulty he obtained
 the use of a kind of cellar in the south-west part of the
 College buildings, in which to keep his diagrams, speci
 mens, and apparatus ; but from deficiency of light,
 distance from the class-room and difficulty of access, this
 receptacle was only fit to be used as a store-room.      He
 made his diagrams with his own hands, the lantern
 with transparent slides not having yet been made available
 for the teaching of geology.        His long practice with
 pencil and brush now stood him in good stead ; and in the
 end he succeeded in making a collection of diagrams and
 pictorial representations sufficient for his needs. He had
 no available specimens of minerals, rocks or fossils.
 These for a time he had to collect and purchase.        The
 old University Museum which, under Robert Jameson's
 fostering care, was rich in this department of natural
 history, had been handed over some years before to the

    FOUNDATION OF A CLASS MUSEUM                          153
                                                    "
Government,    and     now formed part of the          Scottish
Museum of Science and Art."            There were difficulties
in the way of making free use of its materials.          Even
tually, however, from the duplicates      in  that  Museum,   a
large series of specimens was obtained, and the foundation
of a Class-Museum was laid, whence the students could be
furnished with what was needful for practical examination.
In the course of a few years this subsidiary museum grew
in bulk and educational value, until it required a separate
room or hall for its accommodation.
    Further, there was no apartment anywhere available
for the practical teaching of petrography, so essential a
branch of geological science, nor any apparatus for the
purposes of instruction.      In the end, however, I was able
to start a class for blowpipe work, and to introduce, for the
first time, I believe, in the Universities of this country,
practical instruction in modern petrographical methods,
with the aid of the microscope and thin slices of minerals
and rocks.      This practical work was taken on Tuesday
and Thursday, the lectures being on Monday, Wednes
day and Friday, while Saturday was reserved for an
occasional excursion into the field.
    It was arranged that the Geology course, like the other
courses in the Faculty of Arts, should be held during the
winter half of the year.    Its duties thus kept the Professor
in Edinburgh from the end of October until the beginning
of April, that  is,  five months of fairly continuous work.
There was no long interruption of holiday at the end of the
year, like the Christmas vacation south of the Tweed.       But
                              of            "       excursion
                                                              "
I  introduced the practice        taking
                                       a       long
at the end of the winter session, lasting week or ten days,
                                            a
for the purpose of visiting some district of geological
interest in  Scotland.    This practice continued during the
                                     I
whole of my tenure of the Professorship.
    It was the obvious duty of the Professor to make full
use of the altogether exceptional advantages of Edinburgh,
as  a centre for the practical demonstration of many of the
fundamental principles of geology,     by   a detailed study of
the crags and ravines within and around the city, and of the

  r54   FIELD-WORK; "THE LONG EXCURSION"
 shores of the Firth.     From the outset, this field-instruction
 was made a prominent part of the work of the Class.
 During the session the afternoon of Saturday was often
 spent in visiting the nearer exposures of rock, and the
 whole day was occasionally given up to a more distant
                                                            "
 locality.   Not less practically useful was the              long
             "
 excursion      above referred to.   At the end of the session,
 teacher and students spent a week or ten days in a visit to
 some ground of geological interest in the Highlands or
 Lowlands.       They lived together in little country inns or
cottages,   and  long days were spent in the open air, actively
 prosecuting geological observation.       Of these gatherings,
which were eminently fruitful, some account will be given
in the later pages of this chapter.       The young men were
brought into closer touch with each other than could
otherwise have been attained.          By learning how to use
their eyes,   their faculty of observation  was exercised, while
in not a few of them, the love of nature and especially of
geology, now stimulated, became a lifelong source of
pleasure.      The Professor, too, was strengthened by this
more intimate converse with his pupils, and was often able
to help them in the course of the free and friendly chat
by the wayside or among the hills.            In the course of
             "                  "
years   the    long  excursion     was  frequently attended by
students of former years, and their presence added to the
good fellowship of the party (see postea, pp. 165, 166).
    The Geological Class was not the only one in the
University which made long excursions into the field.
The custom was followed both in the Natural History
Class, and in that of Botany.          Now and again two of
these excursion parties would combine.              Thus when
Professor Carus took the place of Professor Wyville
Thomson, who had started in the Challenger expedition,
the Natural History and the Geology classes joined forces
in Arran.       There during the day, while the zoologists
were busy afloat, dredging the prolific waters of the Firth
of Clyde, the geologists were not less active on the shores
and among the glens and peaks of the island, the two
companies spending a merry evening at the hotel.               On

   UNIVERSITY TRAINING FOR WOMEN                         155
another occasion, when Professor Balfour took his class
to the wild Grampian district of Clova, a favourite
botanical field, I joined him there with my little army of
geologists.     The two companies worked together over the
same ground, the botanists learning a little geology by the
way, while the geologists were practically instructed on
the spot in the Alpine flora of those high grounds.
    While the excursions allowed the Professor to become
personally acquainted with his students, there was still
another old University custom which tends in the same
direction, and which I resolved to keep up — the practice
of inviting each of the pupils to breakfast at least once
during the session.       They came to Edinburgh        Uni
versity, not only from all parts of Scotland, but from all
 quarters of the globe.     Most of them had no friends or
acquaintances     in the  town, and would often be lonely
enough in their lodgings.        To be introduced into a
Professor's house and family circle is to many students
an important event, which gratifies them at the time, and
 remains as a pleasant memory        Sometimes I made the
 breakfast the prelude to a Saturday excursion, especially
 after my removal to the southern suburbs, within easy
 reach of the geological attractions of the Braid and
 Pentland Hills.
    For   several years there had been an active movement
 in Edinburgh to establish University training for women.
 Vigorous efforts were made to open the medical school to
 them, but the opposition of the majority of the medical
 teaching staff was so strong that in my timer these efforts
 came to nought.        My sympathies were with the advo
 cates for the admission of women.        It seemed to me
 that there was ample room in the world for female medical
 practitioners.    They might never become numerous,
 and, as a rule, would be only those women who were
 thoroughly devoted to the subject, and who would doubt
 less make admirable physicians, especially for their own
 sex.    But as the agitation went on I could see that, if the
 matter were pressed to the bitter end, it would lead to the
 breaking up of the great Edinburgh Medical School.

156          LADIES' GEOLOGICAL CLASS
The object of the women would                no doubt be gained in the
end, but the time for          it,   at least here, was obviously not
yet, and could not be expected to arrive until the genera
tion of professional opponents had passed away.
   On the other hand, the endeavour to obtain for women
University training in Arts was not only unopposed, but
met with encouragement among the Professors.                         A
Ladies' Educational Association was formed, and two or
three Professors undertook to teach classes of women.
A suite of rooms was engaged at the west end of the town,
where courses of instruction were given similar to those
in  the University.       Mixed classes of the two sexes not
being yet tolerated, the Professors who undertook this
task had double duty to perform.            In my second year as
Professor (1872-73)        I     introduced     science  into the
Association     by giving       course of lectures on geology,
                                a
and   continued  to  do   so as  long as    held the Chair
                                            I                   in
                                                                 the
University.      The ladies mustered               ingood number
at these lectures, and acquitted themselves                 well     in
the examinations, which            were held      twice  or  thrice
during the session.           They also attended excursions
to places     of geological interest in the immediate
neighbourhood       of Edinburgh, of which there                isso
large   a   choice.       It was     an   entirely   new  start    in
Scottish educational procedure when on Saturday, 14th
December, 1872,      I     conducted       party of thirty ladies
                                            a
over Arthur   Seat.    This    innovation    was so much enjoyed
by the company that these Saturday afternoon excursions
became   a  regular part of the curriculum of the Ladies'
Association, as they were in that of the University.
Occasionally the whole Saturday would be devoted to                  a
more distant expedition.         One of the first of these longer
trips dwells in my memory.             Its object was to see the
evidence of great denudation, and of fluviatile deposition
in the Moffat valley, and to visit the wonderfully perfect
glacier moraines that still dam back the waters of Loch
Skene, nestling      in its corrie among the bare Southern
Uplands. A large omnibus drawn by four horses carried
us up Moffatdale, and, dropping us at the foot of the

          SOCIAL LIFE IN EDINBURGH                         157
Grey Mare's Tail, went on to the pass at Birkhill.       After
a climb and scramble among the moraines we crossed the
moorland, with its rough heather and bogs, and descended
on Birkhill.    The cottage there was only a shepherd's
shieling, but I had often lodged in it when inspecting the
progress of the Survey, and was on friendly terms with old
Jennie, the shepherd's widow, who tenanted it. My
                                              "
young wife had come with the party as           matron," and
when I presented her to my old acquaintance the widow,
Jennie looked at    her for a few moments and then said
                 "
slowly to her,      Weel now, ye'll never anger him, and
ye'll aye see that he has a dry pair of stockings to put on
when he comes hame frae the hill."
   The social life of Edinburgh at this time was remark
ably varied and attractive.      In a city of such moderate
size, calling  and  dining-out involved no vehicular diffi
culties, and everybody was, in some way or other, known to
everybody else.     The legal circle, the University circle,
the mercantile circle, and a numerous body of residents
attracted to the town as a pleasant place of abode, mingled
freely together, each class supplying its own distinctive
flavour to the general converse.     The spirit of conviviality
being   well  developed  in the  community, many were the
dinner parties to which the new Professor and his young
wife were invited. As it was the custom at that time to have
music in the drawing-room, and as she was discovered to
possess a good voice which had been well-trained, she was
often asked to sing. There were more especially two houses
in which she was often to be heard, those of Professor
Lister and of Thomas Stevenson, the well-known harbour
and lighthouse engineer.        The future Lord Lister and
his admirable wife, being fond of music, often asked her to
come and sing to them.        I can recall an evening at Mr.
Stevenson's house in Heriot Row when his son, the future
Robert Louis, of literary fame, then a young advocate,
stood at the piano, turning over the leaves of music for her,
as she played her accompaniment, his long hair hanging
over his pale cheeks, and his eyes intent on the printed
score.

 158        ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
   This allusion to the Stevenson family brings back to my
recollection many talks with the parents of Robert Louis
about the career of their son.      The father had taken for
granted that the youth would follow the engineering
profession wherein the family had so long been eminent.
One day he unburdened his mind to me about his son.
" I don't know
                   what to make of Louis," he said, and he
told how he had induced the young man to study
engineering, and how the young student had shown great
promise for a time ; but that eventually it became evident
that he had no great inclination to join the family calling.
He was next induced to take to a career in the Law and
advanced so far as to be called to the Bar.       His mother
fondly hoped that he would rise to eminence as an
advocate, and she wore attached to her watch-chain a gold
coin which she greatly prized, being her son's first fee
as a barrister.    But here again he could not prevail on
himself  to take up the law as a serious profession.    Mean
while, his literary fame was rapidly growing, and probably
no one was so much astonished by it as his worthy father.
   At this time there was not a little histrionic talent in the
University circle at Edinburgh, and it not infrequently
enlivened the evenings after dinner.       On rare occasions
Sir Robert Christison and Professor Douglas Maclagan
were persuaded to sing a most humorous duet in the most
doleful tones, acting the parts of two distressed seamen,
begging on the street.        It was indescribably comical,
and  all the  more  as  the two  performers were among the
most dignified members of the medical profession.
   Of a more serious caste were the recitations of Mrs.
Lushington, sister of Alfred Tennyson, and wife of the
Professor of Greek in the University of Glasgow.       Known
to the world from the graceful allusion to her marriage in
                   " In
the Epilogue to          Memoriam," she sometimes recited
one of her brother's poems.       This she did standing out
side the open door of the drawing-room, so that her strong
deep voice filled the whole staircase and reached to the
furthest part of the room.         Her repetition of " The
Northern Farmer," with her full command of the local

                    DR. JOHN BROWN                       159
dialect, might almost have been taken for the voice of the
poet himself.       Professor and Mrs. Fleeming Jenkyn,
who were themselves accomplished actors, from time to
time gave most excellent private theatricals at their
parties.
   At our picturesque aerie on the Castle Hill my wife
made the most of our surroundings.            Her gardening
instinct was at once roused to improve the little domain.
Carts of fresh soil were brought in, flowering plants were
introduced, decayed shrubs and trees were removed, the
greenhouse was restocked, and by a judicious arrange
ment of walks and vegetation, the small and irregularly-
shaped piece of ground was made to look its best and
biggest.    Thus readjusted, the place became more than
ever a pleasant rus in urbe.    On a fine morning we would
sometimes mount to the top of the slope, stretch a stout
carriage rug on the grass, and with a stool, a cushion and
a few books, a screen of trees behind us, birds singing and
hopping near at hand, and in front, beyond the whole
sweep of the New Town, glimpses of the blue firth and
the hills of Fife ; it might almost have been imagined that
instead of being in the very heart of a populous city, we
were in a secluded spot of open country, far from the busy
haunts of men.
   In due time it became our duty to return " the sweet
civilities of life
                   " which had been so
                                        plenteously bestowed
on us.     The quaint octagonal rooms of Allan Ramsay's
"              " became
  goose-pie                 the scene of many a pleasant
gathering.      Among our guests we greatly enjoyed the
company of the genial physician Dr. John Brown, author
of " Rab and his Friends," and other delightful essays.
His thoughtful talk, ever and anon rippling with humour,
gave him a special place in the Edinburgh society of his
day.     He discovered one evening that his hostess was
well acquainted with Mr. Ruskin, who used to visit the
Winnington school where she was educated, and where he
was almost worshipped.         Dr. Brown loved to discuss
with her the ways and opinions of the brilliant author of
Modern Painters.        In one of his published letters to

 160      LITERARY WORK IN PROGRESS
Ruskin (27th December,          1873) he playfully alludes to
               "
these talks —     we have one      of your old disciples here,
Mrs. Geikie ; she and I like to take you to pieces."
Another interesting guest, who dined with us when he
visited Edinburgh, was Dr. John A. Carlyle, brother of
the more famous Thomas, and an able Dante scholar.
His talk, in the broad Annandale accent, abounded in
graphic pictures of his travels abroad, sometimes with
reminiscences connected with his brother's career.
   Our quiet evenings at home were unfortunately some
what hampered by the amount of literary work which I
had on hand, and for which I had no other leisure time.
I usually succeeded, however, in reading aloud for a while,
and thereafter, while my wife sat plying her needle or
reading, I went on with my pen.          The Life of Murchison
was the chief occupation of these leisure hours during
the years from 1 871 to 1875.          The quantity of manu
script  material left by  the  old Chief  was so enormous and
bewildering that a considerable proportion of the time
taken in preparing the biography was consumed in
examining and sifting the vast mass.        It almost seemed as
if he never destroyed any piece of manuscript that came to
him.    Before the end of the year 1 873 the first four or five
chapters were ready for the printers.       At the desire of the
executors the book was to be published by Mr. John
Murray, who had been Murchison's publisher, and he
agreed to my request that it should be printed in Edin
burgh by Messrs. Constable.             Proofs of the earlier
chapters  were   sent  to  the  executors, whose approval was
an encouragement in what was proving to be a somewhat
heavy task.
    Besides this piece de resistance, my friend Norman
Lockyer had engaged me to write certain books on
elementary science, which were to be published by Messrs.
Macmillan & Co., and which were eventually included
in the series of Science Primers, under the general super
vision of Professors Huxley, Roscoe, and Balfour Stewart.
 My contribution to this series was to write the Primer
of Physical Geography and the Primer of Geology. The

                 LECTURE TO LUNATICS                            161
composition of those two little books was one of the most
difficult tasks I ever undertook.           How often the manu
script of the first of them was torn up and thrown into
the fire or the waste-paper basket, cannot now be recalled.1
Simplicity of treatment, brightness of style, and clearness
of exposition were the chief qualities aimed at ; but it
proved far harder than might be supposed to reach one's
own ideal of what the little books should be.
    An occasional lecture or address outside the Uni
versity was at this time a duty which could not always be
declined.      Thus in 1872 a course of lectures to artizans
            "                                     "
on the        Elements of Physiography                was given in
Edinburgh, two lectures were delivered at Leeds, and a
                 "                             "
discourse on       The Ice Age in Britain (already alluded to,
p. 108) was given to one of the large audiences which
Professor Roscoe assembled for his series of" Manchester
Lectures." Before long, however, extraneous lecturing
was found to be too great a tax on time and strength, and
the invitations to undertake it had usually to be declined,
not always without regret.            In the winter of 1875-76
there came a temptation which I could not resist — to
address two audiences of a kind entirely new to me.            The
first company, consisting of the assembled inmates of the
Morningside Lunatic Asylum, was quite orderly and
attentive, though now and then one of the audience
would stand up, gaze around in an enquiring manner and
sit down again, without saying a word.                 A number of
ladies in the front row came forward at the close to ask me
some intelligent questions, the subject of the discourse
                  " Scots Pebbles." As
having been                                     they were retiring,
one of them pressed me to promise to come to her recep
                                      "
tion next Thursday, adding,              You know, I am Mary,
Queen of Scots."           I then discovered that each one of
those ladies was a patient of the excellent institution,
suffering from some derangement or hallucination which
required medical observation and treatment.
   1 This experience recalled two expressive lines of Ovid :
            Scribimus et scriptos absumimus igne libellos,
            Exitus est studii parva favilla mei.

1 62      LECTURE TO DEAF AND DUMB
   The second audience was composed of the inmates
of the Deaf and Dumb Institution in Edinburgh.         With
those   of our fellow-men who     have no power   of hearing
or speech I had a hereditary sympathy.            My uncle
Walter, who, I have been told, was the best draughtsman
of his day among the Royal Scottish Academicians, was
one of these unfortunate sufferers.      He died before the
end of my second year and I have no certain remembrance
of him. But his memory was fresh in the family when I
was old enough to have impressions indelibly fixed on my
mind.     He was so fond of me as an infant that he would
sometimes insist on having me on his knee as he painted
or etched.     In my early days I not only heard a great deal
about him, but some of the canvases, sketch-books,
brushes, pencils, and other artists' materials which he
left were still to be seen in our house, where he lived
and worked.        As my father had become thoroughly
efficient in the finger alphabet of the deaf mutes, and as
I used often to watch him conversing rapidly on his
hands with some of these unfortunates, I even learnt
this manual alphabet, though never able to use it fluently
in conversation.
    It was with all these distant memories reviving in my
mind that I discoursed to the inmates of the Deaf and
                          " A Piece of
Dumb Institution on                     Coal." One of the
officials of the Institution sat on the platform beside me,
and at the end of every few minutes I paused, while he
reproduced, in visible speech, the gist of what I had been
saying.    I much regretted then that I had allowed my
knowledge of the finger language to
                                            " rust disused."
The audience though so strangely silent was most atten
tive.    Some of them had possibly acquired the power,
which has since those days been so greatly developed, of
actually making out what is said by watching the move
ment of the lips.       But generally they kept their eyes
rivetted on the hands of my interpreter, and pleasant it
was to see the smile of intelligent appreciation which
passed over their faces as they followed his report.      At
any playful allusion that I had ventured to make the

       "PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY" PRIMER                          163
 smile would broaden into a grin, or even be answered by
 some audible but inarticulate response.
    By the winter of 1875 a^ ^e literary work on my
 hands was cleared off.        The two Science Primers were
 published   in  1873.   Their   immediate and extraordinary
 success was a complete surprise to me.         The first large
 edition of the Physical Geography was exhausted in six
 months.     From the beginning up till the end of December
 1922 no fewer than 513,000 copies of this little volume
were printed in England. To these must be added succes
 sive editions printed in America.       The annual sales, even
 after nearly half a century, still continue to be large. The
 book has been translated into most European languages
and is used in Continental schools.        It has likewise been
translated into one or two of the languages of India.
    In one of his " autobiographies," Gibbon could affirm
                     " the
that in his day              conquests of our language and
literature are not confined to Europe alone ; and the
writer who succeeds in London, is speedily read on the
banks of the Delaware and the Ganges."             How greatly
had the passing     of a century   since his time widened and
quickened      the spread    of  English books all over the
world ! I have often been much interested in the course
of my journeys at home and abroad to meet with natives
and foreigners, who, on hearing my name, have claimed
acquaintance with me as one of the instructors of their
youth.
    In the spring of 1875 the Life of Sir Roderick I.
Murchison made its public appearance in two octavo
volumes, with notices and a number of portraits of
scientific celebrities who were his contemporaries,
together with a sketch of the rise and growth of Palaeozoic
Geology in Britain.       It met with a favourable reception
from the press, and was the occasion of a number of
gratifying appreciations from my Chiefs old friends
who were best qualified to judge whether my portrait of
him was a truthful one.          I tried to be quite fair in
my   estimate   of his  character  and of his work, and they
assured me that they were satisfied.        Even some who in

 164   PUBLICATION OF MURCHISON'S LIFE
my opinion had in his lifetime misjudged him, confessed
to me that they now could see him in another light.               One
                                                             "
of these was George P. Scrope, who wrote,                      I have
been reading through (or rather hearing read) your two
volumes, and I am anxious to express to you my thanks
for the kindly and flattering mention you have made of me
therein, and also my admiration of your work.               You have
indeed raised a monument to your hero, of enduring
reputation, and made the very most of your subject,
interweaving into your memoir so many sparkling and
eloquent passages as cannot fail to captivate even the
general unscientific reader.        You have put his character
into a more favourable light than I could have thought
possible, and even exalted the old geologist in my eyes."
    In the same year in which the Life of Murchison was
published, further biographical work of a much less
onerous kind was gratefully undertaken.                 My friends
Sir William E. Logan and Sir Charles Lyell had now
passed away.        Sir William, born in 1797, and Sir
Charles in 1798, had each done noble service to the cause
of geology in the course of a long and devoted life, and
from both of them I had received kindness and encourage
ment in youth, which ripened in later years into warm
friendship.     To Logan, geology was indebted for the
earliest researches into the stratigraphy of the older rocks
of Canada, and for the organisation and development of
the excellent Survey staff by which the subsequent
investigation of the subject had been carried on.                Lyell
was looked up to in all English-speaking countries as the
great leader of modern geology, in whose hands the
principles of the science were enlarged and perfected by a
luminous review of the geological operations now in
visible progress.      His influence was profound even on
men who     would    not  call themselves geologists.          Charles
Darwin was never tired of admitting his great indebted
ness to him.1
   1
     My obituary appreciations of these two distinguished men
appeared in Nature, vol. xii, pp. 161, 325, and I also contributed
an obituary of Lyell to the Proceedings of the Royal Society.

ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA ARTICLE                           1
                                                             65
    It had long been my intention to compile a text-book
of geology on a plan which I had fully considered. This
intention received a stimulus from a proposal made to me
in the autumn of 1876 by Messrs. A. & C. Black, the
Edinburgh firm of publishers.           I was asked to con
tribute the article
                     "           " to the new edition of their
                       Geology
Encyclopaedia Britannica, then in preparation.       It was to
be a fully detailed exposition of the science, and it
eventually proved to be the longest article in the whole
Encyclopaedia.     I stipulated that I should be at liberty
eventually to reprint the article in book form.        Having
agreed with Messrs. Macmillan to prepare an advanced
manual or text-book of geology, I intended that the article
should be the ground-work of the volume.            This firm
would thus publish for me three distinct educational
works on the science — the primer already issued, the
class-book now almost ready, and the text-book yet to
be written.
    In an earlier part of this chapter brief reference was
              "                 "
made to the     long excursion     with which I brought each
session of the Geological Class to a close at Edinburgh.
As an example of this form of instruction, I may refer to
the excursion which took place in 1878.        The object on
this occasion was to follow the course of a river from its
rise among the mountains, and to note the characteristic
features of each part of its journey down to the sea.      We
assembled at the little inn of Dalwhinnie, in the heart of
the Grampian Hills, and rambled over a wide area of the
wonderful group of moraine-mounds which have been
left by the glaciers that once filled all the high corries
and valleys of these mountains.         From the heights we
descended into the valley of the River Spey, examining
its fine series of fluviatile terraces, passing thence down
the gorge of the Findhorn to Forres and the Old Red
Sandstone at Nairn, completing the programme by a visit
to Elgin and the Triassic sandstones so well exposed on
the coast at Lossiemouth.
   It was always pleasant to welcome former students to
these excursions.      On this occasion we were favoured

 1 66     «  LONG EXCURSION " TO SPEYSIDE
with the presence of Henry Drummond, who was the
first to enrol in my first session as Professor, and to whom
frequent reference will be made in a later chapter.              One
of the students of the year, W. A. Herdman (now Sir
William and Emeritus Professor of Natural History in
the University of Liverpool), took part in this excursion,
and has given some account of it in his recent Memoir of
Sir John Murray, from which the following sentences
may be quoted :
     " One
                very pleasant and not the least instructive part
of the geological course [at Edinburgh University] was
the series of geological walks conducted by the Professor,
not merely Saturday walks in the neighbourhood of
Edinburgh, but also longer expeditions of a week or ten
days at the end of the session, to localities of special
geological interest farther afield, such as the Highlands
or the Island of Arran.          I well remember one such long
excursion to the Grampian and the Cairngorm Mountains
and Speyside, when we had, as somewhat senior members
of the party — in addition to Professor Geikie — Dr.
Benjamin Peach, and Dr. John Horne of the Geological
Survey ; Dr. Aitken, of the University Chemical Depart
ment, Joseph Thomson, the African explorer, and John
Murray, or the Challenger.           The rest of us were ordinary
students of science,       and  you can realise how we enjoyed
and profited by the conversation of these senior men, how
we dogged their steps and hung upon their every word." 1
     These students' rambles and the love of geology which
they fostered have dwelt ever since those days in Sir
William Herdman's memory, and though he has become
eminent in another field of natural science, he has assured
me that it was the remembrance of his experience in the
Geology Class at Edinburgh and its excursions, which led
him in recent years to found and endow a Professorship of
Geology in the University of Liverpool.              It is not always
that a teacher lives to see the fruition of his labours.
 Certainly no incident connected with my professorial
    1
      Thirty-first Annual Report of the Liverpool Marine Biology Com
mittee, 1917, p. 26.

     GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN SCOTLAND                                  167
career has given me keener pleasure than this generous
liberality of a former student.1
     Life was now fuller to me of varied and interesting work
than it had ever yet been.            In the first place, the Geo
logical Survey, which I always considered to be my most
important charge, generally kept me engaged in its duties
during the most part of the summer. These duties were
often of the most absorbing kind. They brought me
face to face with the various problems presented by the
detailed mapping of the geology of the Highlands ; they
enabled me to maintain the most intimate and cordial
relations with my colleagues, and they thus cemented
some of the closest friendships of life.                 The winter
months, when the staff was assembled at the office in
Edinburgh, afforded opportunity to compare notes and
discuss the difficulties which arose in the field-work, as
well as to prepare the maps for the engraver and to write
the descriptive text for these maps.
     The mapping of Scotland was advancing across the
southern counties from the Tweed on the one side to the
shores of Kirkcudbright and Wigton on the other.                      It
was likewise extending northwards to the edge of the
Highlands in Perthshire and Dumbartonshire.                      I was
as yet unwilling to plunge into the complicated structure
of the Central Highlands, being of opinion that it would
probably be wiser to begin at the base of the whole series
of Highland crystalline rocks as exposed in the west of
Sutherland and Ross.           In the meantime, without scatter
ing the staff too much, it was convenient to carry the field-
work from the Old Red Sandstone of Kincardineshire
round the eastern end of the Highlands into the area of the
Moray Firth, and thence northward, until the time had
come for taking up the Highland problem as a whole.
As the field-work in the northern half of Scotland would
thus lie to a large extent on the Old Red Sandstone, it
was desirable to make some preliminary traverses of the
   1 Since this passage was written, Sir William Herdman has given
a further sum of   £20,000 to the same University, for the creation of a
Geological Department.

  1 68     FOOTPRINTS IN OLD RED SANDSTONE                             !
 northern counties, and perhaps to extend them into the
 Orkney and Shetland Isles, where the formation is well
 developed.        I have elsewhere given some account of my
 first experiences among these northern isles, with which
 a wider and more intimate acquaintance was gained in the
 yachting cruises of later years.1
      While these northern traverses were in progress I was
 amused to receive from the proprietor of one of the
 Orkney islands the announcement that there had been
 found on his estate in the strata of the Old Red Sandstone,
 " the
          footprints of men, women, children, and animals,"
and he offered to send me samples of them.                  A human
community living in the north of Scotland during the
deposition of the Old Red Sandstone ! Soon afterwards
a hamper, weighing several hundredweight, arrived at the
College from the northern isle.             The contents, as I fully
anticipated, proved to be slabs of flagstone from which
variously shaped calcareous concretions had decayed or
fallen out, leaving sharply defined hollows, some of which
had a rude resemblance to footprints on a surface of half-
dried mud.          One or two of the oddest specimens were
added as curiosities to the Class museum.
      Having been engaged for some years in the study of
the Old Red Sandstone in all parts of Scotland, I spent
part of the winter of 1877-78 in writing a memoir on the
subject which was read to the Royal Society of Edin
burgh.2        It gave a general account of this section of the
Geological Record as developed in the British Isles, and
a more detailed description of the most northerly of the
areas over which it spreads, and which, for shortness of
reference,       I called Lake Orcadie. This memoir was
intended to be the first part of a monograph which would
ultimately include all the other areas, but as a few years
later I removed from Scotland, this design could never be
completed.         In the Ancient Volcanoes of Great Britain,
however, I have given a succinct description of the other
    1 Scottish Reminiscences, pp. 275, 280.
    • Read before the Society, 1st April,    1878, and printed in vol.
xxviii. of the Transactions, pp. 347-452.

           "SPAR CAVES" OF EDINBURGH                         169
Old Red Sandstone tracts, with more special reference to
the ample records     of volcanic eruptions which      they have
preserved.
   During my tenure of the Professorship some interesting
instances were observed in Edinburgh, of the rate at
which certain geological phenomena may be carried on.
The North Bridge, which spans the valley between the
Old and New Town, was proving too narrow for the
increasing traffic upon it. To gain additional breadth it
was determined to insert stout iron girders into the mass of
masonry so as to provide on either side a broad platform
on which a pavement could be laid.           While the work was
in progress Mr. David Stevenson, of the well-known firm
of engineers, who had it in charge, asked me to come and
see a curious disclosure laid open by the operations.          I
found that a series of vaults had been met with in the
spaces between the arches of the bridge, and that the roof
of each vault was hung with stalactites in the form of long
pencil-like white stalks which in some cases reached the
floor.    In the course of a century, the rain filtering down
from the causeway of the bridge through the masonry, had
gradually extracted from the mortar some of the lime
which, as the moisture evaporated in the vault, was re-
deposited in these pendent forms as well as on the floor.
I went into one of the vaults for a short distance. It was
like walking through a close-set thicket of reeds, with this
great difference that instead of bending aside, as the reeds
would have done, the brittle stalactites, growing down
wards, snapped through at once and fell with a kind of
metallic ring on the floor.      It was an interesting example
of the rate at which this geological process may advance,
for all this transference of substance from the mortar had
been accomplished since the year 1772 when the bridge
was opened.      I wrote an account of the observations in a
                            "
short article entitled        The Spar-caves of the North
Bridge, Edinburgh."      l
   In the course of my journeys all over Scotland there
was always an interest in examining the tombstones in the
                      1 Nature, x. p. 8, 1874.

 170       RESEARCHES AMONG TOMBSTONES
graveyards, first for the light which they so often throw
upon the families that have lived for generations in a
district, their names, occupations and the characteristic
mortuary language in which                  their lives are com
memorated ; and next for the valuable and unexpected
information which they frequently afford as to the manner
and rate of decay which various kinds of stone, employed
for monumental purposes, suffer from the disintegrating
effects of the atmosphere.          In the spring of 1 880 I com
municated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh 1 a paper on
this subject, in which it was pointed out that while the
decay is generally more marked in the open air of large
towns where coal is extensively burnt, and where therefore
various gases are given off that are absorbed by falling
rain, yet that even in remote country places, where few
or no such deleterious additions are poured into the
atmosphere, traces of disintegration seldom fail to be
observable.       The least durable material used for our
open-air monuments is undoubtedly white statuary marble.
As the result of my observations, the conclusion was
reached that in the open air of a large town the inscription
on a white marble tombstone freely exposed to the
weather may be entirely effaced in less than a hundred
years.      There was one monument of special interest to
which I called attention, that of the illustrious Joseph
Black, in the churchyard of the Greyfriars at Edinburgh,
who died in 1799.            This sumptuous tombstone con
sisted of a solid framework of hard siliceous sandstone
into which a large upright slab of white marble had been
firmly fastened, recording in Latin, with pious reverence,
the genius and achievements of the discoverer of Car
bonic Acid, and Latent Heat, and adding that his friends
wished to mark his resting-place by the marble while it
should last.        Less than eighty years, however, had
sufficed to make the inscription in part illegible when I
examined it in 1879.          But there were ominous signs that
besides illegibility of the letters, the whole substance of the
   1 Proc.
           Roy. Soc. Edin., x. (1880), p. 518.  Reprinted in Geological
Sketches at Home and Abroad, p. 182.

        RAPID DECAY OF WHITE MARBLE                              171
marble was in a state of decay and chemical transforma
tion.   The slab, still firmly held in place by the metal
fastenings all round its margin, had bulged out con
siderably in the centre, forming a large blister-like
expansion, which had been rent by numerous cracks.
Twenty years afterwards I revisited the spot and found
that in the interval the decay had advanced so far as to
necessitate the entire removal of the crumbling marble,
and in its place the insertion of a slab of far more durable
sandstone on which the original epitaph had been care
fully copied. This reparation was carried out by the
Town Council of Edinburgh, as is stated below the
                            " a.d.       "
inscription, and the date          1894     is added.  Thus
this costly marble monument utterly disappeared in less
than a hundred years.      At the time of my later visit to
Joseph Black's tomb I re-examined the other graveyards
in Edinburgh where I had formerly noted the condition
of the marble monuments. The further progress of decay
in twenty years was found to be remarkable.         No trace
was to be seen of a number of the marble slabs which were
in a crumbling and illegible state in 1879, and others
erected since that date were already showing the initial
stages   of decay.1
   Sheltered from rain, as in the interior of a building, white
marble will last for an indefinite time.      A cynic may say
that, in the vast majority of cases, it will be no great matter
if, at the end of hundred years,
                  a                    amarble monument has
become illegible, or fallen to pieces, and that people may be
allowed to put up memorials in this perishable material
which    inmost cases   islikely to last at least as long as the
memory of the deceased.          But in the case of open-air
monuments that are fine works of art and are meant to
last for many generations to come,             fatuous, in such
                                              it
                                           in is
a   climate as ours, and especially            large towns, to
make choice of     such   a  stone  as white   marble.       was
                                                            It
    In letter in the Times, published on ioth June, 1919, called
    1   a                                                 I
attention to the desirability of avoiding the use of statuary marble
in the erection of the many Memorials of the Great War which were
about to be erected all over the country.

                                                             "
 172    A REMARKABLE " COINCIDENCE
accordingly a surprise and grief to me when the noble
monument to Queen Victoria, erected in front of Bucking
ham Palace, was wrought in white marble.                   The con
summate beauty of the design and of the workmanship are
now seen at their highest perfection, which will slowly but
inevitably fade until a later generation will be called on
to rebuild the structure in some less exquisite but more
lasting material.1
     During the early years of my married life and tenure
of the professorship, the most important interruption of
the regular routine of life was an occasional excursion
abroad, either in spring or summer.              Thus, the winter
of 1872-73 having been one of continuous and somewhat
exacting duties, when spring arrived my wife insisted on
carrying me off for a complete change of scene and
employment by spending the latter half of April and all
 May in a visit to Italy. We went as far south as Naples,
and lingered at many halting-places on the way back.
Traversing the Maremma we rested at Leghorn for the
purpose of visiting a little property among the adjacent
hills, which had belonged to my mother-in-law and where
my wife's brothers and sisters had been born.                     On
returning to Leghorn I found myself apparently in the first
stages of malarial fever, and unable to appear at dinner.           It
was rather late in the season, and my wife was alone at
the dinner-table until another guest was placed opposite
to her.     He began conversation with her in French, but
as she saw that English would be much easier for him she
eventually spoke in his own tongue.            In the end she said
she must return upstairs to her husband, who seemed to be
suffering from a return of the fever that had nearly cost
him his life some years before. The stranger sympathised,
and remarked that a friend of his had nearly been carried
off by a malarious fever when geologising in the Lipari
Islands.      He turned out to be no other than Dr. War
   1
     The statue of Queen Anne, erected in 1712 in front of St. Paul's
Cathedral, London, in course of time became so decayed and un
sightly that in 1886 it had to be removed. It was replaced by another
statue similar in design and materials, which before the end of the
present century will have become another wreck.

          WATER-COLOUR SKETCHING                           173
burton  Begbie already referred to (p. 140) — the     one man
in the world who had watched and understood my case.
He was then on his way to Amaln to see a relative who
was seriously ill.    His steamboat had touched at Leg
horn, and instead of dining on board, he had come ashore
to have his dinner at a hotel.      He went upstairs with my
wife, sat for an hour in talk with me, prescribed a remedy,
and in a day or two I was able to resume our north
ward journey.     This " coincidence " is by far the most
remarkable that has ever occurred in my experience.
    My mother-in-law and one of her daughters having
now made their home in Picardy there was always the
temptation to spend a holiday with them.          And to this
temptation we occasionally yielded during the years of
my Professorship at Edinburgh.           Finding that part of
France to furnish ample material for water-colour sketch
ing, I spent there many a pleasant hour in this pursuit.
There was a picturesque coast-line, with cliffs of brightly
tinted rocks, ruined Martello towers, reminiscent of the
old French wars, fishing villages with all their charac
teristic life and features, while inland, quaint farms and
windmills, antique chateaux, dark woods and rolling
downs offered a wide range of subjects.          Next to geo
logical exploration I know of no occupation so delightful
as that of the sketcher, whether he be a true artist or
                                "
merely what Dryden calls a sign-post dauber."            He sits
face to face with nature, and his soul, if he has one,
communes with her.         He looks at every detail of her
features and sees on every side manifold variety and beauty
of form and of colour that escape most eyes. A land
scape means more to him than to most people, especially
if he be also a geologist. As he tries, with more or less
success, to paint    it, its lineaments are printed on his
memory and remain there as      a   possession for ever.
    HadI     remained  a   bachelor, with Edinburgh as my
residence,  it  would have been hardly possible that any
 inducement would ever lead me to leave Ramsay Lodge.
It  was an ideal home for  a   single man, — in the very heart
of the town, within walk of few minutes to everything
                     a          a

  174    RAMSAY LODGE RELINQUISHED
and everybody, yet open to all the air of heaven, with a
 panorama to gaze upon which was a perennial joy,- and
with a breadth of distance that allowed all the varied
moods of sky and cloud to be watched, as from a com
 manding hill-top.         But drawbacks began to appear.
 My wife, as I have said, was fond of gardening, and
lavished her attentions on the little bit of slope that
stretched from the front of the house up to the wall and
high railing of the Castle esplanade.         She had stocked
 it with flowers which, under her fostering hands, grew as
well as could be hoped for in a poor soil and in the midst
of a town atmosphere. But the bright blossoms of her
                   "                          "
 plants set the       pugging tooth on edge     of some loafer,
who early one summer morning carried off nearly every
plant in bloom.         In the little greenhouse, built into a
corner near the entrance-gate to our small domain, she
tended a few more delicate things that contrived to grow,
though sadly disfigured by the descent of black smuts so
plentifully supplied by the hundreds of chimneys in the
neighbourhood.
    The horticultural difficulties might perhaps have been
endured with patience, but a little daughter, Lucy, had
been born to us, and we were not long in perceiving that
Ramsay Lodge, in spite of the many attractions for us,
was not an ideal place for a child.        The steepness of the
slopes   and   the   scarcity of flat ground on which a child
could run about, were drawbacks which we never realised
until a little pair of feet came to point them out. Even
tually I surrendered my lease of the house, and purchased
a recently built house on the Colinton Road, to the south
of Edinburgh, standing in about an acre and a half of
ground.      It commanded a view of the range of the Pent-
land Hills on the south, while to the north, from the
upper windows, we looked across the Firth to the Ochil
chain and the Trossach mountains beyond.          We had only
entered into possession of this new home a few days before
our son Roderick was born.
    The ground on which the house stood was still only a
bare field, on which, on one of our first visits of inspection,

        LECTURES AT LOWELL INSTITUTE                              175
we scared a lark from her nest.               I well remember the
vivid sense of ownership which the uprise of that bird
gave me.        I felt that I had acquired a bit of land where
the wild life of Nature could still be found.1           As the whole
garden had to be created, it provided a delightful domestic
occupation for the next few years.               We laid out all the
walks, planted every bush, shrub, and tree, and had the
satisfaction before long to have our own flowers and
vegetables, and even some screen and shade from our own
trees.
     On 19th February, 1879, there came to me from Mr.
Augustus Lowell in Boston, Mass., an invitation to give
six lectures at the Lowell Institute during the autumn of
that year.       It had long been my earnest desire to visit
some parts       of Western America, where the phenomena
of denudation and of volcanic action are displayed on a
scale and in a manner to which no equal can be found in
Europe. The remarkable discoveries of Powell, Gilbert,
King, Dutton, Hayden, and others, so well described and
illustrated in scores of reports and memoirs, were almost
as familiar to me as if I had myself beheld the scenes
depicted in them.            To combine a journey to the Far
West with a couple of weeks in Boston was an enterprise
well worthy of being carried out, if it were practicable.
 It would require an absence from Scotland of about three
months.        Such a holiday could easily be intercalated
between two winter sessions at the University ; hence
the duties of the Geological Chair need not be in any way
disturbed.        But the invitation could not be accepted
without the sanction of the authorities of the Science and
 Art Department, my official superiors on the Geological
 Survey.       Application was accordingly made to that
 governing body for six weeks of special leave, which,
 together with the usual six weeks of ordinary annual
    1 It was the same feeling as that expressed by Juvenal on becoming
 the possessor of a lizard :
            Est aliquid, quocumque loco, quocumque recessu
            Unius sese dominum fecisse lacertae.
                                               iii. 230.

 176    VOLCANIC HISTORY OF FORTH BASIN
leave, would cover the time required.             The application
was granted.
    The preparation of the Lowell Institute lectures was
promptly begun.            At the request of the Royal Geo
graphical    Society     I  had  recently read to that body an
address on     "Geographical Evolution";1 and I chose an
amplification of the same theme as the subject of the
lectures at Boston.           Meanwhile it was necessary to
" clear                "
          the slate        in regard both to the work of the
Survey    in  the   field   and  at the office, and to my non-
official writings which were in progress.            Of these last
the most important was a memoir descriptive of the
volcanic history of the Carboniferous Period in the basin
of the Firth of Forth, and containing in condensed form
the results of my researches in that region during nearly
a quarter of a century of more or less continuous applica
tion.    Determining in the field the chronological succes
sion of the different vents and outflows of material, I had
studied the petrography of the rocks by means of thin
slices of them viewed under the microscope.                   After
many vain efforts to have these thin sections prepared
with the required transparency, two members of the
Scottish Survey staff were successfully trained for this
work, and a large and important collection of slides was
ultimately formed at the Edinburgh office, illustrative
of the petrography of Scotland             In the memoir on the
basin of the Firth of Forth, the chronology and petro
graphy of the eruptive rocks of the region were for the
first time described, and their minute structure was
illustrated with coloured plates.         In accordance with the
advice given by Sir Robert Christison                 (ante, p. 65)
the paper was read before the Royal Society of Edin
burgh at two successive meetings, and was published in
the Society's Transactions.2         It was peculiarly gratifying
to receive from the Society this year its Makdougall-
Brisbane medal, the first honour of the kind that had
come to me.
          1
            Reported in Geological Essays at Home and Abroad.
          * Vol. xxix. pp. 437-518.

              VISIT TO UNITED STATES                                 177
    Everything at the College having been cleared off, and
the Survey inspection work in the field completed, the 3 1st
of July, 1879, found me ready to start for the New World.
I was fortunate in securing, as my companion on the ex
pedition, Henry Drummond, already mentioned (p. 166).
Having seen a good deal of him since he attended the
Geology Class in 1 871, I had formed a high opinion of
his mind and character.            He proved in every respect
an admirable fellow-traveller.           His subsequent career —
too soon cut short by death         —  showed him to be an able
naturalist,   an   accomplished writer, and one of the most
earnest and spiritually-minded            men of his generation.
He undertook the arrangements for our passage in the
Campania of the Anchor Line, and his acquaintance with
the heads of the Company led to our receiving every care
and comfort on the outward and return voyage.
    We spent not more than a day at New York, where we
were met by Dr. F. V. Hayden, the geologist who first
revealed in detail the wonders of the Yellowstone Park,
and with whom I had for some years been in active
correspondence.         He had kindly procured for me letters
of recommendation to the resident military authorities
in the region over which the excursion was meant to
extend.      One of these letters was from the Secretary of
War to commanding officers of posts in Utah, Wyoming,
and adjacent territories, requesting them to show me due
courtesy and afford such assistance as could be given.
Another letter from the Quartermaster-General com
mended me to the courteous attention of the Quarter
 master's Department throughout                the sphere of my
 explorations.       Within twenty-four hours after landing,
my companion and I were looking out from the windows
of a Pullman car that rapidly swept past the blue reaches
 of the   Hudson River.
    An account of       the more personal experiences in the
journey    was sent by me in 1 88 1 to Macmillan's Magazine.1
 A  few of the incidents that stand out above the rest may
   1 In two articles which were
                                reprinted in Geological Sketches at Home
 and Abroad (1882), pp. 205-273.
     A.O.                           M

178     DENUDATION, UINTAH MOUNTAINS
be briefly referred to here.    One of these happened at the
beginning of our wanderings in the Far West.          We had
halted at the station of Fort Bridger, a disused military
post, where we were hospitably entertained by Judge
Carter, the patriarch of the district, who, at the request
of Dr. Hayden    and also  of Dr. Joseph Leidy, the Nestor of
American comparative anatomy, met us at the railway
and drove us to his home.          We wished to ascend the
Uintah Mountains, which rise at no great distance from
the Fort, that we might get above the timber line, and from
the bare summit of the chain be able to obtain an extended
view of the whole surrounding country.        Provided with
horses,  tent,  provisions   and   guide we  made    our way
through the thick forest as far as the animals could go.
Leaving them in charge of the old trapper who accom
panied us, we climbed the craggy slopes till, after emer
ging above the limit of trees, we found ourselves upon a
bare broad plateau between 1 1,000 and 12,000 feet above
the level of the sea.     The prospect from this elevation
was a magnificent and most instructive panorama of
peaks,   buttresses,   amphitheatres, pinnacles, columns,
and all manner of picturesque architectural forms carved
by denudation out of a vast flat arch of dull-red sandstone.
It was the most impressive display of the results of age
long erosion which my eyes had ever beheld, far sur
passing in extent and grandeur the instructive landscapes
of Le Puy. Having lingered over this marvellous scene
as long as time permitted, we rejoined our guide and the
horses, and struck down to regain our tent.       Before long
I became convinced that we were being led too far to the
right hand. Unwilling at first to admit that he had lost
his bearings, our guide at last consented to turn round at
a right angle to the course he had been following.        But
we had lost so much time by this deviation that before
we had gone far through the dense woodland, darkness
began to descend, and there was nothing to be done but
to spend the night among the pines.           We selected a
small open space in the forest, where the guide was to
kindle a fire, while my friend and I set out to find water,

                  IN A FOREST FIRE                        179
in which search we succeeded not by sight, but in the
gloom by stepping into a pool.       On our return we were
not sorry to find a fire blazing, on which we proceeded to
cook a few trout which Drummond, who was a keen
angler, had caught in the afternoon.        This was all the
food available, our supplies being in the tent, while our
only coverings were the saddle-cloths of the horses, under
which we stretched ourselves on the hard and rough
ground.     Before long, the fire, which our trapper had
carelessly lighted near an old pine tree, spread to that tree,
which was soon a sheet of coruscating fireworks.        Some
of  the adjacent trees next caught fire, the flames creeping
along the branches and rushing up the stems to the
feathery crests of the tall pines, whence showers of sparks
flew out and fell in long lines through the profoundly still
air.   As tree after tree joined the conflagration the loud
reports from the exploding branches, the hiss of the
leaping flames, and the crash of the falling firebrands,
together with the ghastly glare that now died down and
anon shot up into renewed splendour, would have made
sleep impossible, even had there been no sense of peril in
the situation.
    Had a wind arisen the fire might have spread far and
wide.    But fortunately the night was absolutely calm,
and the conflagration did not extend beyond the trees at
one side of the open space on which we bivouacked.
   As soon as daylight began to return, the horses, which
had been labouring ?ll night to find a meal among the
brushwood, were harnessed, and we resumed the march
in a most glorious morning.      So tranquil had the air been
all night, that long wreaths or wisps of blue smoke lay at
rest among the pines, like streaks of cloud or mist on a
mountain side.      Following the same altered direction
which we had been pursuing the evening before, we had
gone scarcely half-a-mile when we emerged from the
forest at the edge of an open valley, and there in front
stood our tent gleaming white in the sunlight.            We
came upon several serious forest fires some weeks later,
but could skirt them on open ground, and were never

 180        COLD AND CLEAR NIGHTS
again surrounded     in what might easily have been a fatal
position.    Henceforth I made it a point of duty to see,
before we left a camping ground, that our fire was
extinguished and that its site was well drenched with
water.
    Our journey through the Yellowstone region has been
described in the second of the two articles already referred
to.   Apart from the interesting geology, my memory
specially dwells on the genial hospitality of the officers
stationed at Fort Ellis, especially of Lieutenant Alison,
the quartermaster, by whose attentive care we were
supplied with a tent, horses, mules, provisions, and an
escort of two men for our ride of some 300 miles.            I
recall the contrast of temperature between day and night
in the dry air at the elevations which we reached.      While
in the sunshine we felt as warm as on an ordinary summer
day at home, the thermometer at night sometimes fell
to 1 90, my sponge in its bag inside the tent being
solidly frozen, so that I could have broken it with my
hammer.      Another striking meteorological feature was
the remarkable clearness of the atmosphere at night.
During the day there might be a delicate haze, and now
and then we saw good examples of mirage ; but the
nocturnal sky was undimmed by a cloud, and every
visible planet and star shone with all its lustre.  Wrapping
myself   in  the buffalo-cloak,  with    which  Quartermaster
Alison had so kindly provided me, I used to lie apart in
the open for a while, gazing up at the deep sky, so
clear, so sparkling,     so utterly and almost incredibly
different from the bleared cloudy expanse with which
we must usually be content in Britain.          Every familiar
constellation,  with  marvellous  brilliance, seemed  to swim
overhead, while behind and beyond it the unaided eye
could penetrate into space, and see the heavens aglow with
stars hardly ever discernible at home.
    Our most exciting experience was on the last day of our
journey through the Yellowstone region, when we came
 upon some Red Indians in full war panoply among their
 native wilds.   We had reached the head of the last valley

    A MEETING WITH ARMED INDIANS                         181
that had to be traversed before we debouched into the great
lava-plain of Idaho, across which ran a branch railway
to the main Union Pacific line.     While we paused at the
watershed our scout's sharp eyes detected a little cloud of
dust at the far end of the valley, and he soon made out
that it was a small party on horseback and, from their way
of riding, that they were Indians.     As they came nearer
the same unaided eyes reported that there were four
mounted men with four led horses.            Jack the scout
dismounted and got his rifle ready ; the soldier who had
charge of the mules did the same.     Neither of them spoke
a word, but they both covered with their rifles the fore
most Indian, who now spurred on rapidly in front of the
 rest, gesticulating to us with a whip or rod in his hand.
 "
   They are friendly," said Jack, and down went the rifles.
 The first rider when he came up to us was cross-questioned
 by our scout in some Indian tongue, but with here and
 there a word of broken English.     We were told that they
 were bound for a council of Indians up in Montana.
    Four more picturesque savages could not have been
 desired to complete our reminiscences of the Far West.
 Every bright colour was to be found somewhere on their
 costumes.     One wore a light blue coat faced with scarlet ;
 another had chosen his coat of the tawniest orange.
 Their straw hats were each encircled with a band of down,
 and surmounted with feathers.           Scarlet braid em
 broidered with beads wound in and out all over their
 dress.   Their rifles (for every one of them was fully
 armed) were cased in richly-broidered         canvas covers,
 and were slung across the front of their saddles, ready for
 any emergency.      One of them, the son of a chief whom
 Jack had known, carried hanging at his saddle-bow a
 twopenny looking-glass with which, during our inter
 view, he engaged in pulling out some hairs on his face
 that had escaped notice at his last toilette.   The absence
 of hair on their faces added to their somewhat feminine
 aspect.
    Knowing the familiar Indian greeting, we saluted them
        " How ! "
 with               whereupon each of them gravely rode

  1 82  LAVA PLAIN OF THE SNAKE RIVER
 round and shook hands with Drummond and me.              We
 were glad to have seen the noble barbarian in his war
 paint, and amid the scenery with which his forefathers
 had been familiar for many centuries before the white
 man appeared to dispute its possession.           Our satis
 faction, however, would have been less had we known
 then what we only learnt when we arrived in Utah, that
 the neighbouring tribe of the Utes was in revolt, had
murdered the Government agent and his people, and had
killed a United States officer and a number of soldiers who
had been sent to put down the rising, and further, that
rumour represented the active disaffection to be spread
ing into other tribes.
     After this interview with the Indians our way lay for
many miles across the vast lava-plain of Idaho, which has
been deeply trenched by the Snake River and its tribu
taries.    The walls of many deep cafions, that have been
excavated in this plain, display fine sections of the succes
sive sheets of basalt which have been poured out over
each other throughout an area of many hundreds of square
miles.     We had seen in various parts of our journey that
valleys, cut through and between mountains of trachyte,
have in comparatively late time been flooded with basalt,
but we everywhere failed to observe any great central
cones whence these younger lavas could have come.           It
was in this last part of our expedition that we found the
solution of the problem presented by these floors of
basalt in the valleys, and by the wide basalt-plain traversed
by the Snake River.      They were not emitted from central
volcanic cones of the type of Etna or Vesuvius, but from
numerous longitudinal fissures in the crust of the earth,
many of which are now revealed as dykes of basalt running
for miles through all the other rocks. The region was
a magnificent example of the colossal volcanic type of
massive or fissure eruptions, so well diagnosed by my old
friend Baron F. von Richthofen.         It was in this ride
over the vast Snake River volcanic plain that the mists
fell from my eyes as to the origin of the Tertiary basalt-
plateaux of Scotland, Ireland, the Faroe Islands, and

                    SALT LAKE CITY                           183
Iceland.     The problem with which they had puzzled me
for many years was here solved. They were now recog
nised to be an older and more wasted example of the same
type of fissure eruptions.    It may be imagined with what
satisfaction my volcanic studies in Western America
came to a close, and how I longed to be able to return to
the plateaux of Antrim and the Inner Hebrides, in order
to apply to those familiar areas the lesson which had now
been learnt.
   Having reached the branch railway-line, we there
waited in the midst of the arid wilderness of lava till a
train appeared, which at our signal took us in and con
veyed us to the main Union Pacific line at Ogden
Junction.     With the first train available we went on to
Salt Lake City, where a few days were agreeably spent,
partly in geological excursions into the Wahsatch Moun
tains and along the ancient terraces of the Great Salt
Lake, and partly in bathing experiments in the lake itself.
After being a fortnight in the saddle, and consequently
with somewhat chafed skins, we first realised the high
salinity of the water by the sharp pain inflicted on each
wound.      It was said to be easy to float in a sitting posture
in this brine, with the hands clasped round the knees ;
but our experiments in this posture led to uncomfortable
submersion of heels over head.          The large proportion
of salt in the water and the great dryness of the air were
well shown by the stalactitic drips of salt under the
wooden steps that led from the dressing-chambers down
into the lake, and by the extent to which we were each
of us crusted with salt, like Belfast hams, before we
reached the rooms, where a douche of warm water was
ready to remove the incrustation.
   At our hotel I was surprised and greatly pleased to be
accosted by Captain Dutton, the distinguished explorer
of the High Plateau of Utah, with whom I had
 been for some time in correspondence, though we had
 never met.     He told me that another geologist, on his
 way  to  San  Francisco, would pass that evening through
 Ogden Junction.       This was none other than Major

 i84     MAJOR POWELL AND CAPT. DUTTON
J. W.    Powell, the famous pioneer who first descended
in a boat the Grand Canon of the Colorado.          Captain
Dutton went up to Ogden, intercepted the one-armed
veteran and brought him down to Salt Lake City, thus
giving us the great pleasure of a day or two in the com
pany of these two excellent men and enthusiastic geo
logists.   They took us up to Fort Douglas, the military
post  established by the Government to keep the Mormons
in order, and the officers in charge there were unwearied
in their attention.   Major Powell had lost an arm in the
Civil War of 1861, and it was after this partial disable
ment that he made his exploration of the Colorado gorge.
One of his most outstanding qualities was his extreme
modesty.      This struck me now on this first meeting,
and the impression was amply confirmed when I was
again in the United States eighteen years later, and
became more intimately acquainted with him.       Not only
was he one of the foremost geologists of the United
States : he was also an able antiquary, and did signal
service to the investigation of American ethnography by
presiding over the Government Department created for
the purpose.
    At Salt Lake City I had an introduction to one of the
leading Mormon elders.       He was good enough to take
us over the chief sights of the place.   It turned out that
he had once been Secretary at Edinburgh to the Forth
and Clyde Canal Company, before the days of railways,
 and had been induced to join the Mormons early in the
 career of Joseph Smith.
    The return journey to the east was tolerably rapid and
 continuous until we reached Niagara, where we took time
 to see the Falls well from both sides of the river, and to
 watch the rapids above, which are almost as striking as the
 cascade.     Diverging thence into Canada and crossing
 Lake Ontario, we halted at Toronto, where I found my
 cousin Walter, one of the medical professors there, and
 his two sons, also doctors.  The evening express brought
 us to Kingston by daybreak, and we there caught the
 steamboat down the St. Lawrence.        At Montreal we

    GLORY OF AN AMERICAN AUTUMN                           185
passed a brief but agreeable time with Dr.   J. W. Dawson,
the eminent Principal of M'Gill University, and his wife.
Mr. A. Selwyn, who had been one of the staff of the
Geological Survey of the United Kingdom under De La
Beche, and was now the Director of the Geological
Survey of Canada, showed us the rich collection of
specimens which Sir William Logan and his associates
had gathered together in the Museum.            On our way
down the Hudson we halted at Albany to see the venerable
James Hall, and his valuable assemblage of Palaeozoic
fossils.   Taking advantage of our proximity to the
Catskill Mountains, we spent a day or two among them,
and from the almost empty hotel on the summit had the
                                      "
good fortune to be in time for the      turning of the leaf."
The panorama visible from that elevation left a vision of
wide and quiet beauty on the memory, while the rapidity
of the change of colour on the rich tree-foliage of the
nearer landscape filled us with wonder and admiration.
Almost from hour to hour the eye could mark the increase
in the depth of the tints, and the air was vocal with the
                                           "          " and
insect shouts and responses of the           katydids
"
   katydidints." It was an unforgettable experience of the
glory of an American autumn.
    We reached Boston in good time before the date of my
first lecture there.   The fortnight passed in this
                                                       " hub
of the universe " was made memorably pleasant by the
kindness and cordiality with which we were everywhere
received.     Mr. Lowell, the life and soul of the Institute,
was untiring in his efforts to make my stay agreeable to
me.      He invited me to his charming residence at Brook-
line, and gathered there a group of the most notable men
of Boston and Cambridge.          At dinner he placed me
between Longfellow and Oliver W. Holmes.              There
were present also Charles W. Eliot, the distinguished
President of Harvard University, and William Rogers,
one of the oldest and most honoured of the geologists
of the United States. The poet was exceedingly quiet
at dinner, and I found continuous conversation with him
to be difficult.   But his face always beamed with a kindly

1 86         OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES
smile.     Mr. Holmes, on the other side, was full of talk
which ranged, like his writings, over a wide sweep of
subjects, always racy and original.             I remember that
we had a long discussion on Border ballads, with which
his memory was well stored.              Two years afterwards I
reminded him of our meeting, and sent him prints of the
two articles in Macmillan's Magazine, already referred to.
He    made the    following reply    :
                                           Beverley Farms,
                                       Mass., Aug.   1 2th, 1881.
My dear Professor Geikie,
                I  am much pleased to find that you have
not forgotten me, for you may be assured that I re
member well the very pleasant evening I passed in your
company.
    I   have   read    your    adventures and your scientific
experiences in Wyoming which you have kindly sent me.
I am all ready to become an " Erosionist " under your
agreeable guidance, and if I could throw off half a century
or so of time's impedimenta, I should like to cross the
continent with you.            Let me congratulate you and
everybody that the bullet which might have stopped you
on your journey contented itself with giving a job to some
worthy glazier.1
             Believe me, dear Professor,
                                     Very truly yours,
                                                O. W. Holmes.
    Another pleasant family circle was frankly opened to
me in the house of the venerable botanist Asa Gray,
with whom and his wife I spent several quiet but emi
nently enjoyable evenings.             Before leaving America I
went for a day or two to New Haven, and saw as much as
time permitted of the Nestor of American geologists,
Professor James Dwight Dana, with whom I had corres
ponded for several years.               He kindly arranged an
   1
     Alluding to a pistol-shot through the railway carriage window as
the train was about to enter Chicago Station.    Geological Sketches at
Home and Abroad, p. 211.

     F. V.   HAYDEN AND JOSEPH LEIDY                     187
excursion for me to some places of geological interest,
and thus gave me the gratification of seeing the rocks
around his home, and hearing them pointed out and
expounded by the great veteran himself.      At New Haven,
Professor Marsh was also infinitely kind and helpful,
and now began with me a friendship which increased in
cordial intimacy as long as he lived.      At Philadelphia,
where I spent a few days under the hospitable roof of
Dr. Hayden, it was with peculiar pleasure that I made
acquaintance with the revered comparative anatomist,
Joseph Leidy, who had led the way in the description
of the huge fossil reptiles and mammals which have been
so abundantly exhumed from the Secondary and Tertiary
rocks of the western regions of the United States.        He
remarked to me that the remains of these animals used
always to be sent to him, but that his younger successors
in the same field of research, Marsh and Cope, being both
rich men, had been able to acquire all the new material
in vertebrate palaeontology.      And thus, finding his
occupation in that department gone, he had returned to
an earlier love, and was now busy with his microscope
over the Rhizopods.
    After a journey by sea and land of some 15,500 miles
I was back in Edinburgh before the date for the opening
of the session at the University. The three months of
absence were time profitably spent.       I had come into
personal contact with scores of new acquaintances,
especially among the scientific men in the United States,
and with many of them had laid the foundation of sincere
friendship and helpful correspondence.        It was thence
forth  a pleasure to  me  to make more known on this side
of the Atlantic some of the remarkable geological results
obtained by our brethren on the other side, and with this
view I not infrequently contributed papers to the columns
of Nature. Besides this great gain of new friends and
acquaintances, I had considerably extended my geo
logical knowledge by the experience obtained in the Far
West, especially the finding of the clue to the origin of the
Tertiary volcanic plateaux of western Europe, and the

 1   88   LAST LETTER FROM AMI BOUE
 fresh and impressive examples of denudation which it had
 been my good fortune to see.
     I was enabled also to add some new items in elucidation
 of the geology of the United States. Thus, among the
 Wasatch Mountains I found that what had been described
 as an Archaean granite, that         one of the oldest rock-
                                          is,
 masses in the country, was actually younger than the
 Carboniferous Limestone which            had invaded and
                                                  it
 metamorphosed.1       The existence of traces of ancient
 glaciers in the Yellowstone district, which appear to
 have been missed        by
                        the earlier explorers, were found by
 me to be abundant, and        obtained evidence of the great
                                I
 thickness and extent of the ice.a
     In the spring of 1880 there came from Vienna the last
 communication made to me           Ami Boue\
                                         by          was    longIt   a
 letter, dated 26th March, written with            shaky hand,
                                                            a
 and here and there hardly legible.           contained much
                                                       It
 information as to his health and his bodily symptoms,
 combined with many references to what was going on in
 Vienna, and allusions to foreign politics, thus showing no
 abatement of his interest       the movements of the great
                                    in
 world outside, nor any slackening of his outlook on the
 progress of geology at home and abroad.            Some of its
 autobiographical     details and allusions may here be
 quoted
     "
          :
        M. Mojsisovics goes to day to Paris to the 50 year
 Jubilaeum of the Geol. Soc. of France, which was created
 in my library-room the 1st April 1830; present were
 Alex. Brongniart, Cordier, Ferussac, Blainville, Constant
 Prevost, Jobert, all dead.      They wish      should preside
                                                        I
 this solemn meeting, but at 86 y. of age (the 16 March)
 with my infirmities      was impossible.
                           it                   leav only by
                                                        I                a
 very severe sanatory diet.         ...must congratulate you
                                              I
 for your fine journey to North America — countries which
     had visited also    if
                         I   had now 25 years of existence.
I I was   ayoung man 60 or 70 year ago         all the facilities
                                                        ;
  for travelling of our time were not yet discovered and
              1
                  American Journal   ofScience, xix. p. 363.
              *
                  American Naturalist, xv. No. 1.

      AMI BOUE'S MEMOIR OF HIS LIFE                                 189
used.    . . .   Your Gladstone think always in Metternich's
Politik, — a      short sight, only able to remain a short
time.    ...     It is quite wright that our enlighten Emperor
did only laugh at Gladstone ridiculous expectorations, for
they will furnish once to a dramatic poet the matter of
 theater stages, where Gladstone will excite only the
laughter of the public, when he will, for instance, compare
our Emperor to a Nero."              After in nearly illegible lines
justifying the political action of Austria in reference to
the surrounding countries the letter ends thus : — Now
                                                                 "
enough for you to laugh at | I remain, Dear Sir, Yours
 most sincerely, Ami BoueV'
     One day late in November 1881 there came from
Vienna a packet addressed to me in Boue's well-known
handwriting.          It contained a small volume, giving in
 French a sketch of his own life. On the title-page he
had written my name, designation, and address ; possibly
he may even have affixed the postage stamps.                    But he
 left instructions that the packets of which mine was one
 should be put into the post after his decease.                He died
on 22nd November,                1881.    The title-page runs as
             —
 follows : Autobiographic | du | Docteur m£décin Ami
 Bou£ I Membre de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences
de Vienne &c | ne* a Hambourg le 16 Mars 1794 |
 et 1                       I
                               moit comme Autrichien a Vienne |
 Le seul     survivant   quoique Painé de trois freres et d'une
 sceur I (La distribution          de cet opuscule n'aura lieu
qu'apres sa mort) | Vienne, Novembre 1879 | Imprimé
chez Ferd. Ulrich et Fils |            The little volume contains an
 interesting    account   of  his family, of his own life, and of his
contemporaries, and his writings.              He married in 1826,
and towards the close of his long career he could say that,
looking back on their happy union, he would leave this
world loving his wife as he loved her at the first. The
narrative of his wanderings over Europe, and his allusions
to the men of science whom he knew throw a good deal of
light on the state of geology in the first half of last century.
Living until he had reached his eighty-eighth year he was
      1
        This blank left for the insertion of the date of his death.

190            THE ATHENAEUM CLUB
a venerable living relic of that interesting time.         Up to
the last his memory        retained   a  marvellously    detailed
impression   of  scenes  and  persons   he  had known, and he
still kept in touch with the progress of science.          Aided
by his accomplished wife and         a  succession of adopted
daughters,   his  genial domestic   nature    found scope for its
activities in his picturesque country home at Voslau,
and in the modest apartments in Vienna, where he shared
in the life of the Austrian capital.     It is to me a delightful
recollection to have seen him at both places, in the
scarcely impaired vigour of his faculties, and to have been
for some thirteen years in correspondence with one of the
                                           "                 "
last veterans of what has been called         the heroic age    of
geology.
    In  the spring of 1 88 1 I was called to London to
attend the anniversary meeting of the Geological Society,
when the Murchison medal was conferred on me — an
award specially welcome not only as a mark of the
Society's regard, but also as another link connecting me
with the life and work of my Chief, the founder of the
medal.
    A pleasant surprise befell me at this time. I was
not aware that Murchison had, many years before,
proposed my name in the book of candidates at the
Athenaeum Club, and I now had notice that my
election would be coming on soon.            I was duly elected ;
and, sooner than at the time seemed likely, had ample
opportunity of enjoying the advantages of this admirable
club.
    A good deal of literary work was completed about this
time, partly in the form of memoirs communicated to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh and of papers and articles
contributed to journals, but chiefly in the preparation of
the Text-book of Geology which I had undertaken for
Messrs. Macmillan.         The volume of the Encyclopedia
Britannica containing my long article had now been
published, and I had begun to expand this article, with
the incorporation of detail necessary for students of the
science, and to prepare the numerous illustrations required.

PRINTING OF TEXT-BOOK OF GEOLOGY                          1 9 1
The early portion   was now sent to the printer ; but the
labour involved was so great, and the time that could be
devoted to it so restricted, that the book was not com
pleted and published until October 1882.
   Most of the inspection-work of the Survey now lay
along the margin of the Highlands and to the north of
them.     Rambles among the eastern Grampians have
always had a peculiar charm for me.        The wide areas of
tolerably level moor on the summits of these mountains
impress one as an unexpected feature of the landscape,
and as a striking contrast to the narrow, jagged crests
and peaks of the Western Highlands.            At heights of
3800 feet   one comes  upon  extensive  tracts which, if they
lay in the Lowlands, might be used as golf links or as
racecourses.    An invigorating influence seems to pervade
these relics of an ancient table-land.        One may walk
there for miles without fatigue in the bracing air, often
with impressive views of distant heights in the range, or
of the plains of the low country. Then there is always
the sight of the living creatures of the high mountain
fauna — a herd of red deer may be startled, the blue
Alpine hares watch the human trespasser for a time before
they scamper off", and the ptarmigan rise in alarm from
their nests, leaving their broods to run helplessly among
the quivering bent.      If one has also eyes for plant
forms, there is the Alpine flora to add another source of
interest, and another problem to the many geographical
questions which the walk suggests.
   In the course of the summer of 1881 the Geological
Survey made a remarkable discovery of fossils in the
lower Carboniferous rocks of Eskdale in the south of
Scotland.    A number of new species of fishes were
obtained, but the most startling feature of the collection
was the presence in it of abundant well-preserved speci
mens of an ancient type of scorpion.         A brief account
of this discovery which appeared in Nature brought me
a letter from Charles Darwin, which is inserted here
as an instance of his keen and watchful interest in the
progress of palaeontological   research, and his generous

 192       LETTER FROM CHARLES DARWIN
impulse to      farther  it by contributing    to  its financial
support.
                     Down, Beckenham, Kent, Nov. 1881.
My dear Sir,
             I have   been much interested by your account
                          "     " in the Lower Carboniferous
in Nature of the great find
strata.    As so many scorpions were found, one might
hope for other terrestrial animals and plants, if some new
places were searched by blasting away the overlying rocks.
But I daresay you would not think yourself justified in
employing the officers of the Survey in such work.         This
leads me to make an offer,      —  and I hope and trust that
you   will  not  think  that I am   taking a liberty in doing
so, —  namely to subscribe j£ioo or £200 if you can find
anyone whom you could trust to send, and if you think it
worth while to make further search for the chance of fresh
and greater palaeontological treasures being discovered.
If my offer seems to you superfluous or presumptuous
pray forgive me and believe me.
                            My  dear Sir,
                                     Yours sincerely,
                                              Ch. Darwin.
    In thanking     the great naturalist for this characteristi
cally sympathetic offer, I was able to assure him that we
should probably obtain from our own resources the means
of completing the investigation.        I added that his hope
that other animals might be found, had already been
partly realised, for we had unearthed two specimens of
small amphibians.        So well preserved were some of the
scorpions that their chitinous tests were still in some
degree elastic, and the poison gland was sometimes still
recognisable.
    At this time a detailed examination of the detrital
deposits of the deep sea, collected during the voyage of
the Challenger, was in progress in Edinburgh in the hands
of Dr. John Murray and the Abbe Renard. As the
Belgian geologist remained for some time in Scotland,
we saw a good deal of him in my family circle, where his

          PERE RENARD AT CAPE WRATH                      193
 talking French,    and his evident fondness for children
 and domestic life, made him a favourite visitor.         He
 was in some respects a remarkable and interesting man.
 Trained as a Jesuit, he had refrained from making the
 last profession before entering the Order.      In the many
 long conversations which I had with him, I could see
 that his opinions were broadly liberal in regard to
 ecclesiastical questions, but he still remained attached to
 his Church.     He had a great desire to see some part of
 the Highlands, and as my duties led me to the north of
 Scotland, I invited him to accompany me in a visit to the
 extreme north-west of Sutherland.        By the courtesy of
 the Engineers of the Northern Lights I had the privilege
 of the hospitality of the lighthouse at Cape Wrath. As
 we boated from Durness to the Cape, a good deal of swell
 was surging through the narrow passages at the foot of
 the cliffs, and some skill on the part of the boatmen is
 then needed to thread these channels safely.     The worthy
 Belgian was visibly alarmed at times, and it was to his
 evident satisfaction that we passed finally into the little
 bay at the end of which is the landing-place for the light
house.      Coming upon a boat that was here fishing
lobsters, I made a purchase from the crew, pitched a coin
 into their boat and received into ours a fine lobster to
 increase our commissariat.     Renard had never, I think,
been before in a small boat upon the open ocean, and
certainly had never been so far north.         He had come
 prepared for all the hardships of an Arctic climate, and
huge was his astonishment to find that his heavy great
coat and other wraps were not needed, and that we could
stand, even bare-headed, at the top of the lighthouse tower,
and gaze at the waste of Atlantic waters beneath which
the sun was sinking.      It was indeed a glorious evening.
The clouds had grouped themselves into the semblance
of a varied terrestrial landscape, with hills, plains and
lakes.    On this new land, now discovered by us, we
amused ourselves, more geographico, in naming the more
prominent features in the vast celestial country after the
leaders in geological science.    As we turned to descend

194      RAMSAY'S LAST VISIT TO SCOTLAND
for our frugal dinner, the Abbe\ who was at this time
manfully    striving to wrestle with the vagaries of the
English language, exclaimed with much exuberance,
"
   Vat a vedder we have, to be sure !
                                           "
    In August 1 88 1 Professor A. C. Ramsay, Director-
General of the Geological Survey, paid a visit to the staff
in Scotland.      Besides his official duties, he was desirous
of spending a few days in seeing once more some of the
places that he had known well in his youth.            There had
been an official enquiry into the progress of the Survey
in Great Britain and Ireland, which involved the pre
paration of tables of figures, maps and reports.             This
work proved a heavy task to the Director-General,
although we all did what we could to assist him.           When
he joined me,    I was  at once painfully  struck  with the  great
change    which   he  had  undergone   since  we  last met  in the
previous year.       In bodily strength he had aged con
siderably, and he had lost much of the merry vivacious
manner that endeared him to us all.          He said of himself,
                                     "
in the words of the old ballad,         I'm weary wi' hunting,
and fain would lie down."        So his visit proved really to be
farewell to us in Scotland, for obviously his resignation
of the burden of his office could not be long delayed.
 As he wished to see some of the Highland lakes once
 more, we made for Kenmore, sailed up Loch Tay,
 discussed the structure of Ben Lawers, and the relation
 of the lake to his famous theory of the origin of lake-
 basins.   In further connection with that theory, we saw
 in succession Lochs Earn, Lubnaig, Vennachar                  and
 Achray, passed through the Trossachs, sailed up Loch
 Katrine, and from Inversnaid sailed down Loch Lomond
 — scenes that had been familiar to him in early years and
 which he knew he was now looking upon for the last
 time.
     By the end of September, Professor Ramsay had
 definitely made up his mind to resign the office of
 Director-General.       His retirement was marked by the
 bestowal  of  a  simple knighthood upon him — a tardy and
 inadequate recognition of forty years of devoted work

NEW DIRECTOR-GENERAL                   APPOINTED          195
in the public service.      The usual newspaper paragraphs
duly appeared, and many guesses were hazarded as to his
successor.      If the appointment were to be made within
the ranks of the Survey, the three Directors of England,
Scotland and Ireland were eligible.     Of these I was senior
Director, though not senior in the service.          But the
question    of   seniority might  not be considered, and to
avoid internal friction, the post might again be given to
some one entirely outside of the Survey, as was the case
when Murchison succeeded Dr La Beche.                On the
evening   of 9th   December  a somewhat  mysterious telegram
reached me from Colonel Donnelly, Secretary of the
Science and Art Department, advising me not to be in a
hurry about a house in London. It was capable of more
interpretations than one, and my household was puzzled.
Next day, being Sunday, when for an hour in the morning
letters were obtainable at the General Post Office in
Edinburgh, I walked into town to see if there were any
communication that would throw light on the cryptic
telegram.      The following letter was then handed to me :
                               Privy Council Office,
                                          9th Dec.   —8  1 .
Dear Professor Geikie,
            The present Director-General       of the Geo
logical Survey retires towards the end of this year.
   I  have much pleasure in offering the Post to you and
also the Directorship of the Museum in Jermyn Street.
   It is right to mention that some changes may be made
in the Museum, and although I cannot specify them at
the present time, I beg that you will note that they are in
contemplation, and I do not wish you to be unacquainted
with this intention when I offer the post to you.
   I am sure that your appointment will be of much public
utility, and that you will be able to press forward the
completion of the Surveys in the three kingdoms.
                                        Yours truly,
                                                 Spencer.

196    RECEPTION OF NEWS IN MY FAMILY
    My  first feeling on reading this letter was naturally
one of satisfaction.   The prospect was opened out to me
of a larger life in London, with the probability of greater
usefulness, and with the honour of filling the highest
post in my profession.    It would have been a disappoint
ment to me, after more than a quarter of a century of hard
work in the service, to be placed under the rule of an
outsider.    At the same time I could not overlook the fact
that there were two or three members of the staff older in
standing than myself, who might not unnaturally resent
that a younger colleague was advanced over them.      This
was most to be anticipated in the case of my esteemed
friend and colleague, H. W. Bristow, who though well
over sixty years of age, might hope, as Director for
England and Wales, to obtain the promotion.        I there
fore wrote at once to him to announce my acceptance of
the post, and to assure him that my one keen regret came
from sympathy with him in having been passed over,
that I would gladly do all in my power to be of service to
him, and that I sincerely hoped our old brotherly relations
would continue unbroken.       His generous reply assured
me that we would remain as fast friends as ever.
    The excitement was great in the family circle, when on
the Sunday morning I returned with Earl Spencer's
letter.   My wife's early associations were with the south,
and though she had become deeply attached to her
adopted home, and to the many close friends she had made
in Scotland, she could not but be pleased to return to her
oldest friends and her nearest relatives. The children,
now numbering three girls and one boy, were too young
to be able to form an opinion, but there was a prospect of
change to London ; their father was to be promoted ;
their mother was happy ; and they were delighted.
    And yet when, after long suspense, the matter was thus
finally settled in my favour, the thought of leaving the
scene of all my work, of severing the many associations
that bound me so firmly to Edinburgh, of losing the
continued intercourse with the students and with the
varied interests of University life — would sometimes fill

           CONGRATULATORY               LETTERS           197
mc with a pang of regret.     And this feeling grew stronger
as the months slipped past.        But there never was, nor
could there be, any real hesitation in accepting the
preferment.
    It was important that the new appointment should have
the approbation, not only of the Geological Survey, but
also of the officers of the Jermyn Street Museum.       I was
consequently much gratified to receive from Professor
Huxley, the most outstanding of their number, a letter of
welcome in which he wrote :
                                   " I
                                       sincerely congratulate
Lord Spencer and you on the appointment. There is
not the smallest doubt in my mind that it was the right
thing to do ; and I need not say how glad we shall all be
to have you among us in London."
   Among the letters received at this time from friends
in this country one from Henry Drummond may be
quoted here.      Since our travels in the Far West he
had been appointed Lecturer on Natural Science at the
Free Church College, Glasgow, was widely known for his
evangelical work among students, and was yet further to
distinguish himself by travel in Africa and by his remark
able contributions to scientific literature.    I had written
to him on other matters a few days before ; his reply
contains the following sentences :
    "
      Your very kind letter duly reached and cheered me.
I am still alive, still unmarried, unengaged, and hopeless.
   "
      But I am too full of another subject to speak of my
self.   The news about you has just come from London ;
and of the many whom it will gladden, I am sure there is
none whose heart more sincerely rejoices than mine.          I
remember one day in the Rocky Mountains, when the
vast solitude set us talking about destiny, you said you
had a strange hankering to spend part of your life in the
great metropolis.       And now your thoughts have been
prophetic, and the dream comes true.        I heard a whisper
of the change a few days ago, but I had no idea it was so
nearly realised."
   Of the congratulatory letters from abroad none touched
me more than one from Major Powell, who was now

 198         LETTER FROM            G. K.    GILBERT
Director of the Geological Survey of the United States.
He said that he remembered with pleasure the hours we
had passed together at Great Salt Lake, and assured me
that he was deeply gratified with my appointment.             Not
less welcome were the greetings of another eminent
geologist of the United States, G. K. Gilbert, whom at
that time I had never met, but with whom I had in later
years friendly relations, both in his own country and in
mine.      As an illustration of the kindly regard that links
together men of science on the two sides of the Atlantic
who have never met, the letter is here given :
                                 Washington, D.C.,
                                         March 21st, 1882.
Dear Sir,
             Once before I have taken up my pen to express
my satisfaction at your promotion, but it occurred to me
that I had no assurance that you were aware of my
existence, and I laid it down.      Since then, however, I have
met with some mention of my work in a publication of
yours, and now comes your Circular of March 8th.1
    It was a subject of great regret on my part that I was
unable to meet you when you were here, for there is no
other geologist who holds quite so exalted a position in
my estimation, and it was with corresponding pleasure
that I learned of your appointment as Director-General.
It is fitting that the first post of honor be filled by the one
who stands first in attainment.
    In tendering you my congratulations permit me to
express the hope that executive duties will not absorb
your time to the exclusion of scientific work.
                      Very truly yours,
                                              G. K. Gilbert.
    It was arranged that Sir Andrew Ramsay should demit
his office at the end of the year.     As the change had come
about    in the very  middle   of my   course  of lectures at the
University, which I felt bound to complete, the first duty
   1 This was a formal card sent to correspondents,
                                                    announcing my
appointment and change of address.

     NEW DIRECTOR-GENERAL                     ON DUTY        199
that called for action was to apply to my official superiors
for permission to fulfil my engagement at the University
which would end in April.          As a question of finance was
involved, the application was referred to the Treasury,
                                                   "
which sent the characteristic reply that             My Lords
offer no opinion as to the compatibility of the two offices,
but they cannot agree to his receiving salaries for both
offices at the same time."        Of course, there never was any
question    of a double   salary.   It was settled that I should
retain the Professorship and its salary until 1 5th May, but
begin to discharge some of the duties of Director-General
without salary on 1 st January.
    Sir Andrew Ramsay retired at the end of December, and
I took his place on the Monday morning following, 1st
January, 1882. A week in London sufficed to give me a
general view of the condition of the office, and the state
of the English branch of the Survey, and I was able to
resume my duties in Edinburgh by the end of the Christ
mas vacation, though it was necessary to pay repeated
brief visits to London during the winter and spring
    With an undercurrent of sincere regret, I continued and
finished my last courses of lectures at the University
and at the Ladies' Association.          Teaching had become
so great a pleasure that the approach of its complete
 cessation could not but sadden me.            The close contact
with young and eager natures, which the open-air work
of geology so plentifully supplies, was a constant source of
 satisfaction, and the enthusiasm shown by the students
as each fresh branch of enquiry was opened out to them
acted as a continuous spur to one's own spirit of investi
 gation.    In this my final session it seemed to me that
the   consciousness   that we were soon to part, and that the
 personal intercourse which had counted for so much would
 never be resumed in after years, reacted both on teacher
 and pupils.      Certainly the students worked well ; the
 class-work was excellent, and the excursions were never
 better attended.      It so happened that this, my last class
 at Edinburgh, was not only one of the largest in the whole
 of my tenure of the professorship, but contained a

 2oo     LAST MONTHS OF PROFESSORSHIP
specially marked group of men who have since made
 their mark in the world.      Among them were Robert
 Chalmers, G.C.B., Joint-Secretary to the Treasury, now
 Baron Chalmers, George L. Gulland, Professor of
 Medicine in the University of Edinburgh, R. T. Harvey-
Gibson, Professor of Botany in the University of Liver
pool, and Robert Francis Scharff, Acting Director and
Keeper of the Natural History collections in the National
 Museum, Dublin.
   The class at the Ladies' Educational Association was
also large, and the quality of its members, as tested by
examination, remarkably high.         In their case, also,
the influence of the feeling that teacher and taught were
working together for the last time could be recognised.
There never had been greater industry in the class-work,
nor fuller attendance at the excursions.         At the last
Saturday ramble forty-four ladies      in  five  waggonettes
drove with me from Edinburgh to Carlops in order to
examine the Upper Silurian deposits of the Pentland
Hills, alluded to in a former chapter (p. 55).
                                                  "
   As the scene of the last " long excursion         with my
students I chose the island of Arran.     This classic spot in
the history of Scottish geology had been the scene of my
own earliest geological exploration, it was the first distant
place to which I led my class at the start of the Chair of
Geology, and now, with all its inexhaustible attractions,
it seemed the fittest place in which my active career as
Professor should come to a close.
   Mixed classes of both sexes were then impracticable,
and of course mixed excursions were absolutely impos
sible.   I arranged that my young men should come first
for a week or more, and that after they had left the island
the ladies should arrive.   The northern half of the island
was selected as the area to be examined, with the village
of Corrie as headquarters. We arrived there on 24th
April, filling the little inn and overflowing into the
cottages on either side.  The weather continued generally
fine throughout the whole time.          Nearly all of the
students had never been on the island before, and with

   LAST EXCURSION OF LADIES' CLASS                      201
bright skies overhead, and     a  succession  of admirably
varied and instructive rock-sections, alike among the
mountains and along the shores, the long days of climbing
and scrambling passed so quickly and pleasantly that the
last of them came too soon, and much to the regret of
both the teacher and his pupils.     When the young men
left, Mrs. Morrison, the worthy innkeeper, came to me
                                                    "
with a grave face to express her opinion that I had made
a mistake in sending away the young gentlemen ; for it
would have been such a merry company with them and
                 "
the ladies too !
   The second or ladies' contingent duly arrived in the
afternoon to the number of twenty-six, more than half of
the whole class.   My wife and Mrs. Fraser, wife of one
of the Judges of the Court of Session, accompanied the
party, in order that it might not be said that they strayed
forth unchaperoned.     The ladies distributed themselves,
as the students had done, in the inn and among the
cottages.    The utmost good humour prevailed in cir
cumstances which were so novel to them, and the united
company appeared in the inn each day for dinner, and to
spend there a merry evening.       The good weather con
tinued.    We were consequently able to profit by every
day   and  to have long rambles on the shores where so
many striking geological features are laid bare, and in the
glens and corries, climbing to the summit of Goatfell, and
scrambling along the jagged granite crests before descend
ing to our starting-point.    For the more distant excur
sions the company filled five waggonettes, exploring the
western and northern coast, and picnicking by the shore.
   One feature of these days with the ladies may be
mentioned here.     When we returned each evening I
wrote before dinner a minute of the day's proceedings in
the field, mentioning what we had seen and recounting
any personal incidents that might have occurred.         In
this narrative numerous blank spaces were left for the
insertion of adjectives, which were afterwards supplied
to me as they happened to suggest themselves pro
miscuously to the company, who, not having yet heard

202                  VALEDICTIONS
the minute read, had no idea of the appropriateness or
otherwise of the epithets which they dictated.            Read
aloud each evening after dinner, while         the  experiences
of the day were fresh in the minds of the actors, these
minutes gave rise to inextinguishable laughter.           They
formed a novel and pleasant variation of the supposed
serious solemnity of workers in science.        It was resolved
that they should be printed, and that a copy should be
sent as a souvenir to each lady who took part in this last
long excursion.
    On 9th May my University students entertained me at
a farewell dinner.     I was hardly prepared for the warmth
of kindly feeling which they showed me, and which they
assured me was shared by my former students in all parts
of the world. They presented me with a beautifully-
illuminated Address, designed by themselves, with appro
priate geological vignettes, and signed by some 150 of
 present and former students.         At the same time they
handed me a handsome silver casket embossed with
 Scottish stones collected by themselves.
    The ladies were not less sympathetic and kindly in their
 farewell letter, and my colleagues in the University made
a formal entry on their Minutes in the usual stately but
                         "
 friendly language — The Senatus Academicus have
 received with regret the intimation by Professor Geikie
 of his resignation (on promotion to a higher appointment)
 of the Murchison Chair of Geology, of which he has been
 the first incumbent.      In accepting this resignation, which
 they will forward to the University Court, the Senatus
 resolve to record their sense of Professor Geikie's dis
 tinguished merits as a Professor and of his agreeable
 qualities as a colleague."

                     CHAPTER VII
FIRST    YEARS   OF THE      DIRECTOR-GENERALSHIP          OF
             THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
                          (1882-1891)
The duties of    the   Director-General    of the Geological
Survey comprised     the  supervision   and  co-ordination of
the operations of the three branches of the service in
England, Scotland and Ireland, and the direction of the
Museum of Practical Geology in Jermyn Street, London.
These duties being mainly administrative, the holder of
the office was naturally obliged to spend much of his time
in London, though, if he could also keep himself in
personal touch with the mapping in the field and with the
officers by whom it was carried on, he would obviously
make his supervision of the maps and memoirs more
thorough, and at the same time be able to give encour
agement, and perhaps occasionally even assistance, to his
colleagues in the difficulties of their field work, as De La
Beche is recorded to have done.
   Being still in the prime of life and in full vigour of
body, I resolved from the outset that, as far as possible
the administrative duties at headquarters should not
prevent me from keeping in personal touch with the
progress of the field work in each of the three kingdoms.
Of the details of the mapping in Scotland I was, of course,
already fully cognisant.      The authorities decided not
to appoint a successor to the Directorate of the Survey
of Scotland, until such time as Mr. H. H. Howell could
be transferred to that post from his work in the north of
England. Consequently for two years and a half the
                               203

 2o4    VISITS TO THE STAFF IN THE FIELD
 duties of the Scottish office were superadded to those of
my new post.
    It was one of my first objects to make the personal
acquaintance of each officer on the staff in England and
 in Ireland, visiting him, if possible, at his country
quarters, seeing his maps, and learning on his ground the
kind of work on which he was engaged. This pleasant
duty was in great measure accomplished in the course
of my first year of office.    So helpful to myself in the
superintendence of the Survey was this personal relation
ship with the members of the staff and their mapping,
and so generally did it appear to be appreciated by them,
that I kept it up as far as practicable during the whole of
my tenure of office, which extended over nineteen years.
During this period the work of the Geological Survey
formed the main occupation of my life.        In this and the
following chapters, as in those which have preceded,
allusion will occasionally be made to the progress of the
 Survey in the three kingdoms, sufficient to indicate its
general nature, without entering too far into technical
details.
   At the outset of my headship of the Survey there were
urgent reasons why no delay should arise in coming into
personal touch with the Irish staff.       The mapping of
Ireland was now far advanced, being concentrated mainly
in the northern counties, though some revision was also
in progress in the south.      It was common knowledge
throughout the Survey that things did not always move
smoothly in the Irish branch, chiefly owing, as was
reported, to the insubordination of one of its members.
Rumours, perhaps more or less exaggerated, of this man's
peculiarities used to find their way to our ears across
St. George's Channel, even as far back as the days when
J. B. Jukes had charge of the Irish Survey. And fresh
reports of his doings had recently come to me.         Being
particularly  anxious   to  have   an  interview   with  this
rebellious colleague, I arranged that my first visit should
be to him.     After a few days spent in Dublin with the
Director and those of the staff who happened to be there,

               VISIT TO IRISH STAFF                       205
 I went down to the pleasant Vale of Ovoca, where the
officer in question had for some time been engaged in
the revision of the published maps.        He met me at the
railway station with cordiality   — a tall, broad-shouldered,
stoutly-built man, with handsome features, a dark bushy
beard, a strong voice, and a full Irish brogue — evidently
not the kind of antagonist one would care to encounter in
a personal scuffle.    Taking me to his house, he introduced
me to his wife and daughters, who kept me to luncheon.
He showed me his maps, which I carefully examined,
and we had a long and amicable conversation over them.
I found him entirely reasonable, ready to listen to any
criticism I might make on the mapping, and evidently
pleased that I had taken the trouble to come at once to
him in his country quarters.       The ladies were not less
courteous and pleasant        As I was leaving, they gave
me an armful of beautiful flowers for the wife of the
Director — a peace-offering which the same evening I
handed in to its destination in Dublin.
    The impression left on my mind by this first contact
with the alleged author of so many disturbances was that
if he were treated justly and firmly, with the fullest con
sideration of his point of view, he might be moulded
into a peaceable and kindly comrade.         In the course of
my subsequent experience of the Irish temperament this
first impression, though modified, was never quite
effaced.    Before the end of the summer, however, the
Irish Director reported to me that this stalwart member
of his staff was on the war-path again. So long as these
two members remained in the service, the chief trouble
of my reign was to compose their differences and prevent
them from injuring the progress of the Survey.          Each
of them was an Irishman, with many excellent qualities,
which, however, included neither a capacity for under
standing each other's habit of mind nor a spirit of
forbearance.
    After this first interview with one of the Irish staff on
his ground, it was with good hope that I moved into the
north of the island and paid a visit to each man in the

206            AN EARTHQUAKE MISSED
midst of his field of work in the wide tract from Donegal
to Larne. The year 1882 was an anxious time in Ireland.
The Phoenix Park murders had taken place on 6th May,
and outrages had occurred in many parts of the country.
In the course of a stroll through Dublin one Sunday
                                                       "
afternoon, I witnessed no fewer than five street          rows."
    In the course of the inspection in Scotland this year
the month of October was marked by a succession of
storms worthy of the grimmest winter.           By fierce gales,
heavy rains, and dense mists we were fairly driven out of
the hills.  Descending to Comrie, on the line of the great
boundary-fault — a locality famous for its frequent earth
quakes — we lingered a while in the gloaming, hoping
that the underground Powers, in sympathy with the
atmospheric tumult above, might possibly favour us with
one of their performances.        But after waiting for an hour
or two with no answer to our hope, we drove off to our
quarters at Crieff.     It was tantalising to learn on coming
down to breakfast next day that there had actually been
an earthquake between three and four o'clock of the
morning, when I was sound asleep and neither heard
nor felt it,though the tremor affected     a  wide district and
knocked down       afew plates and glasses.
    In the midst of the multifarious doings of this period
I  found time for     little literary work.
                       a                       It wasa   pleasant
and easy task to collect various essays and lectures which
had appeared during the previous twenty years.              They
were now published (April 1882) as         a   volume entitled
Geological Sketches at Home and Abroad.            Much more
serious was the completion of the first edition of the
Text-book  of Geology, on which    I    had been engaged for
five years, and which was at last published on 17th
October, 1882.       The sale of this volume both at home
and in America proved unexpectedly rapid, for in little
more than      year the whole of the large impression was
               a
sold, and second edition was called for.
          a
    With the charge of the Scottish Survey still resting on
me, in addition to the duties of my new post,            it   was
desirable to defer, as long as might be, all engagements

            UNIVERSITY TERCENTENARY                              207
connected with the Councils and Committees of the
various scientific Societies in London to which I belonged.
But this abstention could not be for long. These Societies
have a right to count upon the co-operation of their
members in the work of administration.             Elected into the
Geological Society in 1 859, 1 became a member of Council
in 1883, and from that time to this, with the exception of a
few years, I have continued to serve.             Two years later
I entered the Council of the Royal Society. To be asked
by the managers of the Royal Institution to give one of
the Friday evening discourses is an honour which can
hardly be declined.           In response to this invitation I
                            "
gave an address on             The Cafions of the Far West."
These marvellous chasms had greatly fascinated me in
the journey in Western America, and had led me to make
a study of river-erosion under different climatal con
ditions, on different forms of terrestrial surface, and in
connection with other geological influences.            The results
of my reflections were comprised in an article on " Rivers
and River-gorges in the Old World and in the New,"
which appeared in the English Illustrated Magazine (1883).
     In the early months of the following year, I gave, at
the Royal Institution, a course of five lectures on
                                                              " The
Origin of the Scenery of the British Isles." Tolerably
full abstracts of these lectures appeared in Nature? and it
was my original intention to write them out fully, with
many illustrative views and diagrams.              But leisure for
this performance never came.
     The celebration of the three hundredth birthday of
Edinburgh University took place successfully in April
 1 884, and as a former Professor it was my duty to attend
it.     The organisation of the festival was excellent, and
the attendance large, from all parts of the world.              As a
retired Professor, according to custom I was included in
the list of those who were to receive honorary degrees.
We assembled in the fine old Parliament Hall of Scotland,
where large cards, fixed on stands, marked the part of the
    • These abstracts were reprinted in my Landscape in History, 1905,
 pp. 130-157.

 208     FREEMAN AMONG HIS FRIENDS
hall where each group of visitors was to muster.       Free
man, the historian, was wandering helplessly about,
evidently never noticing the sign-posts.      I got hold of
him and led him to the proper place of assembly.
The mention of the historian's name reminds me of
many pleasant       parties at Knapdale,   Mr. Alexander
Macmillan's suburban home at Tooting, where Freeman,
John Richard Green, Canon Ainger, and William Aldis
Wright were sometimes together. Freeman regarded
Green as a disciple and protégé of his, and was evidently
attached to him, but sometimes Green could not resist
the temptation to poke fun at his literary father.      The
mention of Froude's name was enough to inflame the
historian of the Norman Conquest.       Before he could get
his heavy artillery ready, Green was discharging another
little pin-prick in the rear.  And so the discussion would
go   on to the infinite  amusement of the company, Ainger
getting in his witty and appropriate hit, and Aldis Wright
quietly watching and enjoying the whole performance.
I remember when Froude's Oceana was published, this
volume became the subject of talk at one of these Knapdale
parties. Ainger wondered where and how Froude
obtained his consummate mastery of style.          Freeman
would not admit this excellence, or any other.        There
were times when Freeman had a cold or other slight
ailment, and then the whole household was upset.         He
was an utterly intractable patient, and although every
thing was done for him that kindness could suggest, he
was always grumbling.       The children of the house were
afraid of him, and r mained subdued and quiet as long
as he was under the roof.
    On the other hand Canon Ainger was devoted to
children, and they were not less fond of him.      My own
young folk rejoiced when he paid us a visit.       His fun
and frolic on these occasions were endlessly delightful.
He seemed for the while to be as juvenile as any of them,
and as ready for any kind of amusement.         He was an
excellent mimic, and could imitate some sounds to per
fection.   A favourite performance of his, and dearly

CANON AINGER'S LOVE OF CHILDREN                            209
loved in our household, was his chase of a blue-bottle       fly
round the room.       His imitation of the insect's buzz was
remarkably good, and as he ran on after the supposed fly,
the young eyes were strained to see the little object which
they could so plainly hear.     Then at last he would make
a  dash with his arm, and clasp the palms of his hands
together, the buzz still going on apparently between
them.     He would end the play         by
                                        cautiously opening the
hands, and lo! nothing was to be seen.
    As the children grew older, Ainger found other ways
of amusing thrm and retaining their devotion to him.
I  remember one occasion       inthe country when he had to
drive about three miles   in   adogcart with my son and his
cousin, both about ten years old, to catch   a   train.   Before
they started he said that the three of them must make
fifty puns before they reached the station.         Leading the
chase himself with two or three before they were outside
the gate, they kept up the fun and reached the fiftieth
 pun as they halted at the railway.
    At this point in my narrative, allusion may be made
to some domestic rearrangements, which affected my life
in  London and were of great importance to my family.
The change from the bracing climate and the open-air
life of their northern home to the atmosphere and more
 indoor life in   London was not long        in  introducing a
 succession of children's ailments which our young folk
 had hitherto escaped.     It   had been planned that, on
 leaving the preparatory school at Hunstanton, where we
 had placed him, our son Roderick should enter Harrow
 School.    Believingit  to be  a great advantage that, where
 possible, the earliest part of boy's life at
                                    a             a great public
 school should be spent under the parental roof, and amid
 the kindly influences of home, we finally decided to remove
 for few years to Harrow, where in 1886 we obtained
     a                                                        a
 house and garden, with an extensive view over the vast
 plain of the Thames, from St. Paul's dome to the towers of
 Windsor.     This change proved of much benefit to the
 health and happiness of the household.              Our eldest
 daughter, Lucy, however, had not been able to throw off
     A.O,                          o

210    PROFESSOR ZIRKEL IN CORNWALL
a  delicacy for which winter in a warmer climate was
recommended.       She was accordingly        sent to Cannes
where her grandmother       had  taken   a  villa.  There she
was enabled not only to overcome her ailment, but to
go through a course of training in drawing at the studio
of Mademoiselle Mercier, one of the most accomplished
of French painters in water-colours.
   Before our migration to Harrow, we were in the habit
of transporting our young folk from time to time to the
rocky and breezy coast of Newquay in Cornwall.             We
were there in the summer of 1 884 when I received a letter
from Professor Zirkel who had come to England for a
short time, one object being to see a little of the geology
of Cornwall. He was easily prevailed upon to pay us a
visit at Newquay, and as I had been studying the rocks far
and wide from that centre, I was able to take him on a
different excursion every day.      Entering with spirit into
the pastimes of the children on the picturesque coast-line,
he became a great favourite in the family.         The corre
spondence, which began     soon  after we  became   acquainted
at Largs in 1868, had continued ever since that time,
and now grew more frequent and intimate after this
sojourn in Cornwall.     He was one of the most gentle,
courteous, sympathetic, and modest men I ever knew.
Certainly I never encountered another German professor
of the same charm. He was a devoted son who looked
after his mother with the most sedulous care, escaping
at every vacation from his professorial labours, first at
Lemberg, then at Leipzig, in order to hurry back to
Bonn, and be beside her.       After her death he charged
himself with the care of his married sister and her children,
and when she became a widow he grew more solicitous
than ever in his tender care of her, and the superintendence
of the education of her young family. The most dis
tinguished petrographer in Germany, he had none of the
narrowness, vanity, and self-assertion, unhappily            so
prevalent   in German    professorial   circles.   With  many
admiring friends all over the globe he kept up cordial
relations.   His handwriting was a remarkable index

          SURVEY WORK IN IRELAND                         211
of  the  character of the writer — a clear, round, simple,
legible Italian hand, not the angular and often illegible
German Handschrift.        He not only would not use that
national style of handwriting, but also insisted that all his
publications should be in Roman type.         He used to say
that he never could understand why his fellow-countrymen
persisted in using a handwriting and a form of printed
type different from those of all civilised nations, and
which placed their country with the backward Russians
and   Turks.
   In  the spring of the same year some weeks were spent
by me in Ireland, partly at the Dublin office, but chiefly
in the field.    For some years before this time various
revisions had been made of the published maps on the
scale of one inch to a mile, and it was now desirable to
consider whether and to what extent new editions of these
sheets should be prepared.       To be able to decide this
matter, I had to go over some portions of the south and
west of the island.     As a large part of the revision had
been done by Mr. Alexander M'Henry, one of the
assistant geologists, he was the fittest member of the staff
to conduct me over the various traverses that had to be
made.     He proved now and in subsequent years to be
one of the most helpful and efficient travelling companions
I ever had the good fortune to meet with. He undertook
all the arrangements as to trains, cars, hotels, and com
munications ; always had his wits about him, and being
personally agreeable and conversable, he made even the
longest drives and the poorest inns less irksome.        We
spent   some   time  in  the south-west   of   County  Cork,
crossing the parallel ridges and valleys to Killarney.     In
the course of these tramps he gave me graphic accounts
of the experiences through which he and several of his
colleagues had gone during the time of the Fenian
troubles, when every Government official was an object
of suspicion and dislike. On a quiet country road, after
the end of one of his narratives, I remarked that it was
well that he no longer needed to carry a revolver.        He
made no answer, whereupon I asked if he still went about

212    AN ARMED GEOLOGIST IN IRELAND
                        "                               "
armed in that way.          Indeed, I do," he replied,     for
you never know what is going to happen," at the same
time pulling out the weapon from behind his coat.
As we drove to Bantry our jarvey was careful to point out
to me the exact scene of every murder, or attempted
murder, during the last few years — a melancholy list,
in the length and completeness of which he evidently
prided himself.
    The inspection of the Survey work in progress in the
north of Ireland brought one into a wholly different class
of scenery, a more varied geology, and a distinct type of
peasantry.    In the course of one of my tours of inspection
in this region, when our work was stopped by a heavy
rain which prevented the use of the maps, one of the party
suggested that, until the shower had passed, we should
take shelter in a neighbouring farm which was tenanted
by an acquaintance of his, an old Scotsman.              The
farmer, who received us hospitably, had so strong an
Irish brogue that after we had left his house I asked how
long ago he or his family had left Scotland.      The answer
came at once that they had for some generations been all
born in Ulster, and that their progenitors came over in the
" Plantations " of the seventeenth                And yet the
                                       century.
Celtic populace still looked upon this man as a Scot ! We
                                    "
got into talk with him about          poteen," the small-still
whisky illicitly made    in  the lonely recesses of the hills.
In my walks over the district I more than once kicked up
on the moors recognisable fragments of stills, and in*
passing a police barrack, near Letterkenny, I had seen a
pyramid of rusting stills, more than six feet high, which
had been seized in the surrounding hills and broken up
by the constabulary.      Our farmer knew all about poteen,
and when he found that I had never seen or tasted       it, he
fetched a  dusty bottle of the liquor.  It   proved to be the
most fiery fluid
               I    had ever met with.
    The geological mapping of Scotland had now been
carried westward from Aberdeenshire along the northern
base of the Highland mountains, but        it   had not been
pushed far into the uplands, pending the detailed investi

      TAP O' NOTH AND MORAY FIRTH                           213
 gation which was about to be made in the north-west
 counties of Sutherland and Ross.          I retain, however,
 some pleasant recollections of visits to the northern
 flanks of the high grounds of Aberdeenshire and Banff.
 One excursion was specially memorable, when with my
 colleague, John Home, I ascended the Tap o' Noth, a hill
 not more than 1851 feet in height, yet so placed as to
 command a remarkably wide area of the north of Scotland.
 From the vitrified fort on the summit, the weather being
 clear and bright, we looked across the Moray Firth to the
 Caithness hills, gleaming in tints of pearly blue, seventy
 miles to the north, while to the south, at a distance of
 thirty miles, rose the snowy crests and dark chasms of
 Lochnagar, and far behind them the white summits of the
 further Grampians.       Not less exhilarating to the geo
 logical eye was     the wonderful complex of schists, ser
 pentines,    and  other  crystalline masses which underlie
 this region.     It was difficult to tear oneself away from
 these rocks, so varied and beautiful that one would fain
 have carried off a specimen of each of their endless
 varieties.    As it was, I contrived to collect and send up
 to the Jermyn Street Museum a bulky box, containing a
 series of lithological treasures, such as the cases there did
  not yet contain.     Another day was given to the examina
 tion of the range of sea-cliffs between Cullen and Banff.
  But the calm east winds were now succeeded by furious
 gales from the south-west, the full force of which caught
.us on the exposed coast. We had sometimes almost
  to lie down to avoid being swept over into the sea.       Yet
  the sky remained clear, and in sheltered places the air was
 warm.      From the top of the cliffs the Moray Firth
  presented a majestic sight — a vast expanse of angry surf,
 lit up by the sun and torn into clouds of spindrift by the
  gusts that swirled over its surface.   Later in the afternoon
  the sky became completely overcast, and we tramped our
  last four miles of moor in rain, hail, and snow.         After
  eleven hours in the field we were not sorry to return to the
 warm comfort of the hotel at Huntly.
     The time had now come when the mapping of the

214        STRUCTURE OF SUTHERLAND
Highlands must be undertaken.          As a prelude to this
work it was necessary that the true structure of the region
of Sutherland and Ross, which Murchison believed that
he had settled, should be determined beyond all question.
The validity of his interpretation of the ground having
been disputed by several observers, it was obviously
desirable that by detailed mapping the true order of
succession    of the rock-masses should be accurately
ascertained before the attempt was made to unravel the
structure of the Highlands as a whole.       Accordingly, in
the spring of 1 884 I selected B. N. Peach and John Horne
as the officers to whom this important, and probably
difficult, task could most confidently be assigned.       They
were instructed to get at the truth, regardless of anything
that had been published on the subject         The structure
of the ground proved to be extraordinarily complicated,
but by the end of summer these careful observers had
advanced so far as to be convinced that Murchison's
interpretation of the structure of the ground could not be
maintained.     I had implicitly accepted that interpretation,
and had shared in Murchison's attempt to apply it to the
rest of the Highlands.        Naturally I could not bring
myself to abandon it until I had seen with my own eyes
such evidence as would convince me of its error.      Accord
ingly I made for the extreme north-west of Scotland
before the middle of October, and joined my colleagues at
Durness.      We spent some days in going minutely over
the sections in that now classic region, and tested the
results by further traverses to the south.     Unfortunately
the weather became so tempestuous as greatly to hamper
field-work.    The wind came in such powerful gusts
that I was blown down, and all of us had at times to hold
on with hands as well as feet.     In spite of mist, rain, and
gale,   however,  we  did  what   we  set out to do.     I was
completely convinced by the evidence so fully worked out
by my two colleagues, that the Murchisonian view of the
order of sequence in the rocks of the north-west of
Scotland must be abandoned.        It should be remembered,
however, that nature had so cunningly concealed the true

           PUBLICATION OF THE REVISION                              215
structure that no one could have definitely proved it by a
mere cursory examination of the ground.                  The demon
stration of the actual structure required laborious mapping
in minute detail.             The correct explanation or this
structure introduced to geologists a new type of displace
ment in the earth's crust.
     I arranged that Messrs. Peach and Horne should
prepare and send up to London a conjoint report, giving
succinctly the results of their investigation, with the
necessary illustrative diagrams.            To this report I wrote
a preface, with a frank confession that I had been mis
taken, and that I entirely accepted the opinion of my
colleagues.         These documents appeared in Nature of
 13th November, 1884.              They mark a noteworthy inci
dent in the history of Scottish geology.1
     Five years had slipped away since my return from the
Far West of the United States, during which time, amid
the pressure of official work and domestic claims, it had
never been possible to resume the study of the Tertiary
volcanic rocks of the Inner Hebrides.               I was now at last
able to return to that interesting region.                   Revisiting
ground that was familiar to me upwards                 of  thirty years
before, I could now look at it with fresh eyes, quickened
by experience in many parts of Britain and in foreign
lands.        One of the first observations now made enabled
me to correct an error into which Macculloch had fallen
and in which I had accepted his teaching.                  I had since
suspected that the white marble of Strath which was once
worked and exported,2 was not altered Lias limestone as
Macculloch believed, but belonged to a much more
venerable series of rocks.            On coming afresh to it from
the ancient limestones of the North-west Highlands, I was
   1 The
            history of the investigation of this complicated area, with
full references to all the observers who have taken part in it, is given
in the massive volume on the The Geological Structure of the North
 west Highlands of Scotland in the Memoirs of the Geological Survey
of Great Britain (published in 1907) which will be mentioned in a
subsequent chapter.
   2
      It is said to have been used in laying down the pavements of the
Palace of Versailles.

21 6    RESUMPTION          OF WORK IN HEBRIDES
at once struck by its resemblance to them and proceeded
to look for fossils in parts that had escaped much meta-
morphism.       My former student, Mr. H. M. Cadell, who
accompanied me to Skye, found the first fossil, and on
subsequent searches I obtained a number more which
conclusively proved the rock to be the same as the Durness
limestone, now known to form an important group in the
Cambrian series of the North-west Highlands.
    After an active and profitable time in Skye I went alone
to the isle of Eigg for a brief visit to my colleague in the
Edinburgh Senatus, Professor Norman Macpherson,
owner of the island.        Thence I crossed in an open
rowing boat to the island of Rum, the proprietor of which,
not being in residence there at the time, had been good
enough to instruct his bailiff to make me comfortable in
      "
the     big house."    This large mountainous and pictur
esque    island  had then few inhabitants and no roads.
It was a piece of wild nature, seemingly still left untouched
by man.       The details of its geological structure proved
extraordinarily interesting, and supplied further striking
evidence of the order of succession of the volcanic
phenomena which had been found to extend throughout
the region of the Inner Hebrides.           The scenery, too,
was singularly impressive, and to be entirely alone in the
midst of it added to its effect on the imagination.
    The enthusiasm and delight of these weeks among the
                                              " Io
isles found vent in a letter to a friend :         Triumphe!
Here I am back again from the West, after the most
brilliant weather, and with entire success in reaching the
objects of the journey.      My good fortune in the way of
weather is almost incredible.       That I should have been
for a whole month in that weeping climate and never lost
one day, is a marvel.     The last days in Rum were perhaps
the finest of all — so splendid in scenery and so bewitching
in geological interest that it seems all like a dream.   I can
hardly believe that I actually saw such noble scenery under
such superlative conditions.      In fact my work has been a
kind of intoxication.      I have seen almost too much of
grandeur and beauty for a frail mortal to take in.      Surely

            CONGRESS AT BERLIN IN                      1885       217
there is no scenery in the world to beat these Western
Isles, when the weather is at its best." 1
    The third International Geological Congress met in
Berlin towards the end of September 1885, under the
Presidency of the venerable Nestor of Rhineland geo
logists,   H.    von Dechen.       Though seventeen years had
passed since we last met, I found him remarkably well
and vigorous.           Addressing the assembly in French,
the official language of the Congress, and looking
towards the only lady in the company, Mrs. Hughes,
                                                          " Madame
wife of the Cambridge professor, he began,
et Messieurs."          An account of the proceedings was given
in one of my letters from which I extract a few sentences.
"
   The Berlin Congress was a success so far as the seeing
of German geologists went. After the meetings during
                                   "          " at
the day, every night a               Kneipe           which Zirkel,
Lossen, Reusch, Lehmann, Neumayr, Mosjsovics, and
a host of younger men took part.               Such a noise amidst
air blue with tobacco smoke            !    Capellini from Bologna
(where the previous Congress was held) was con
spicuous and active at all the meetings.               I went to the
Harz with Lossen, and have struck up quite a friendship
with him.        What a fine fellow he is ! but so deaf.             I
also went to Stassfurt and, with the party which made that
excursion, descended into the principal salt-mine, which
had been elaborately prepared for our reception —
illuminations, banquet, poetry, music, speechifying, etc.
A gnome, from behind a pillar of salt, read a German Ode
of welcome to us. The tables were of solid salt, and
everything else in keeping.           I proposed the health of the
Bergleutee, which seemed to be appreciated by them.
Leaving the excursionists I went on to Bonn in order to
spend a day or two with Zirkel and his mother, and to
see a little more of dear old von Dechen."
    One of the most valuable acquaintances made by me
at the Berlin meeting was with Albert Auguste de
Lapparent, one of the most distinguished of French
   1 The results of this summer's
                                  exploration were given in the Memoir
described on p. 223.

21£           WITH ZIRKEL AT BONN
geologists.   We were a good deal together at this time
and laid the foundation of a cordial friendship and corre
spondence, which lasted with growing intimacy till his
lamented death in 1908.
   The brief halt at Bonn was memorably pleasant, I
now made the acquaintance of Zirkel's mother, and could
quite understand the strength of the attachment and
devotion which he had for her.        She was a gentle old
lady, domestic and simple in her ways, full of sympathy
with her son in his pursuits, and proud of the distinction
which he had reached.        I remember how pleased she
was when he showed her a box of English lavender water,
which, knowing his fondness for that perfume, I had
brought with me from London for him.          We had some
delightful rambles ; did not fail to climb the Drachenfels,
                          " the wide and
to look once more over                     winding Rhine,"
and in some long and earnest talks we cemented more
closely than ever the friendship which united us.
   At the anniversary of the Royal Society on 30th Nov
ember 1885 I was elected into the Council, at the same
time that Sir George G. Stokes was chosen President.
Though there are only some eight or nine meetings of the
Council in the course of a year, the attendance at them is
usually so good that to miss even one of them may bring
the absent member within the application of the rule
which provides for the dropping out of those who have
been present the smallest number of times.         I appreci
ated the honour of being elected into this select company,
though believing that my frequent absence from London
would probably limit my tenure of office to one year.
The new President appointed me one of his Vice-
Presidents, and eventually I found myself in a position
to retain my seat at the Council next year.
   This year saw the completion and publication of the
second edition of my Text-book of Geology ; and the first
edition of the Class-book of Geology.   On the latter volume
I had been for a long time engaged. The original
intention was that it should be issued soon after the
appearance of the Class-book of Physical Geography.       But

      CHAIR OF GEOLOGY AT OXFORD                                219
the pressure   of many other
                          calls had delayed it until now.
The postponement, however, was not without some
advantages, for it enabled me to devise and mature a
treatment of the subject which I hoped would make a
useful book not only for the purposes of the class-room,
but for the unaided solitary student.       The scheme thus
adopted was original, and the success of the book fully
answered my hopes.       Successive editions of it have been
printed, and it still continues in demand.
    In the spring of 1887, on the invitation of the Junior
Scientific Club, a brief visit was paid to Oxford, where a
pleasant company assembled at the museum, under the
genial auspices of the venerable Sir Henry Acland, and
where I gave an address on the influence which the
geological features of Britain have had on the races that
have settled in these islands.1     During this visit I was
the guest of my old friends Sir Joseph and Lady Prestwich.
This eminent veteran had now determined to retire from
his professorship in the University.     Though seventy-five
years  of  age, he continued   as active  in mind as he had
ever been, and was then hard at work on the proofs of
the second volume of his treatise on geology.      When the
Chair of Geology thus became vacant, I was pressed to
accept it by one of the University authorities, a member
of the Committee of Electors, who assured me that if I
would consent my appointment would take place without
delay.    By another Oxford man the ease and dignity of
an Oxford Chair were extolled to me, in contrast with the
constant work and worry of the Survey, which would
obviously become more burdensome as years passed.
Though frankly admitting the tempting nature of the
proposal, I never seriously entertained       but took every
                                               it,
means in my power to promote the appointment of my
friend and old colleague           in
                                   the Geological    Survey,
Professor A. H. Green of Leeds, who soon after was
elected to the vacant post.
 1
   This address was afterwards published in Macmillan's Magazine
and reprinted in the volume of collected essays published in 1908, to
which 1t gave the title Landscape in History.

220     PROBLEM IN GEOLOGY OF DONEGAL
    The last return of the malarial fever of 1870 disabled
me for a little in the summer of 1 887 ; but its effects were
dissipated by an inspiriting round with my colleagues,
first in the northern counties of Scotland, and thereafter
in a traverse of some mountainous ground in the north
west of Ireland, where the surveyors had met with much
difficulty in the mapping of the metamorphosed rocks.
The crystalline schists, limestones, and quartzites of that
region were naturally assumed to be a continuation of
those of the Scottish Highlands.       We had long walks
and still longer car-drives ; we examined many miles of
rocky coast-line, we climbed mountain after mountain,
each bleaker and rougher than the last, but in the end I
was compelled to conclude that the Irish staff had not
yet been more successful than their Scottish brethren in
ascertaining the true sequence of this ancient series of
rocks.    At the same time there was every reason to hope
that the experience which was accumulating in the north
of Scotland would eventually furnish the key to the
solution of this Irish stratigraphical problem.
    One incident of this tour made a lasting impression on
me.     Having reached the most westerly headland of the
region, we proceeded to climb the imposing mountain
of Slieve League which rises precipitously from the
northern shores of Donegal Bay to a height of nearly
2000 feet.     This district of Ireland is sacred ground in
the history of the Celtic Church and in the life of St.
Columba, whose name and fame are perpetuated in the
name of the valley — Glen Columbkille.         In our ascent
of the landward side of the mountain we came upon some
of the rude rock-shelters which the Irish missionaries
                  "
used as their       deserts," or places of retirement for
meditation and prayer.      Musing, partly on the historical
associations of the place, and partly on the geological
puzzle presented by the rocks of the rugged acclivities
which we were climbing, I was unprepared for the
surprise which awaited us at the summit.      The mountain
had been mapped as entirely made up of quartzite, but
we had not traversed more than a few yards of the flat

     FOSSIL TREES ON SLIEVE LEAGUE                           221
top when we came upon a block of sandstone enclosing a
well-preserved fossil tree ! A brief examination of the
ground showed that this was no mere chance boulder,
dropped during some time of submergence on the sunken
hill-top, but formed part of a cake or platform of sand
stone, a few acres in extent, which lay as a capping upon
the main body of quartzite.         This sandstone, with its
stems of Stigmaria, was obviously an outlier of the group
of strata which includes the Irish Coal-measures. What
a picture was here presented of the stupendous denudation
which the surface of the island has undergone 1 The
Carboniferous    system,     including, perhaps, its coal-
bearing portion, may     once   have spread over this north
west region of Ireland, but it has now been worn away
and washed into the Atlantic Ocean, leaving only this
little patch of its lowest platform on the top of Slieve
League, as a memorial of its presence.           Verily the woes
of Ireland date from a remote past ! Another memorable
lesson in denudation was taught by the same mountain.
Climbed on its landward side, it presented only the
familiar craggy slopes of the Donegal hills, but when its
top is reached the climber finds himself on the edge of a
vast precipice that plunges steeply down into the waves
that burst into foam along its base.         It looks as though
that side of the mountain had been cut away by the sea.1
    The year 1888 was marked in the history of the
Geological Survey by an important rearrangement of the
staff.   Mr. H. W. Bristow, the Director for England
and Wales, now above seventy years of age, retired on his
pension.    His office and that of the Director for Scotland
were conjoined, as they had been up to 1867.              Advan
tage was taken of this abolition to appoint a Petro-
grapher to the three branches of the Survey, who should
have his headquarters and laboratory at the Jermyn Street
Museum, but should visit the officers in the field when
their work involved petrographical assistance.         He would
thus keep in touch with the mapping, and ensure correct
discrimination of the rocks.         Various minor improve-
                  1
                    Landscape in History, p. 58.

 222   PETROGRAPHICAL               DEPARTMENT
ments in the staff were at the same time effected, with the
result that the service was made more efficient, and the
pay of the officers was slightly increased.      Thus at last
 I had the satisfaction of seeing one important branch of
the work of the Survey, which I had myself introduced
and had striven in the face of many difficulties to maintain,
put on an efficient footing, not only worthy of the service
but likely to add to its reputation.     We were fortunate
in securing for our first petrographer J. J. H. Teall, who
had shortly before completed his large and important
volume on British Petrography, in virtue of which and of
his published papers he now stood in the front rank
of living petrographers.       His capacity and geniality
were soon felt and acknowledged on the staff, as well as in
the scientific and official world outside, insomuch that
when, thirteen years afterwards, I retired from the
Survey, he was at once, with universal approval, appointed
as my successor.
   Two years later, in 1890, advantage was taken of the
opportunity to reduce the staff of the Geological Survey
in Ireland.     The first mapping of that country being
now not far from completion, and several of the senior
members of the staff being qualified to claim their pen
sions, the authorities arranged that these members should
retire on 30th September, and that two of the remaining
staff should be placed in the Scottish branch.         There
were thus  left in Ireland a Senior geologist in charge at the
Dublin office, three geologists for the completion of the
maps and memoirs, an assistant for petrographic work,
and a collector.
   During the work of inspection in Scotland in the
summer of 1888 I attended a meeting of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, and then communicated in outline
the results of my prolonged study of British Tertiary
Volcanic history.     To this Society, which had published
my earliest papers on this subject, it seemed proper to
offer the memoir which completed these investigations.
This memoir, the bulkiest I had yet written, was accepted
and published in the sumptuous manner in which the

GEOLOGICAL CONGRESS, LONDON,                     1888     223
Society issued its Transactions (Vol. XXXV., part 2,
                " The
 1888, entitled        History of Volcanic Action during
the Tertiary Period in the British Isles ").     It makes a
quarto volume of 1 64 pages with two maps and fifty-three
illustrations in the text.   It was afterwards embodied,
together with the results of subsequent explorations, in
the second volume of Ancient Volcanoes of Britain.
    The fourth International Geological Congress assem
bled in London on 17th September, 1888, under the
presidency of the veteran Joseph Prestwich.        His large
circle of Continental friends sent a goodly contingent of
their number to do him honour       In spite of his years, he
discharged the duties of the office with complete success.
He gave his presidential address in French — a language
which he spoke and wrote with ease.        His noble head,
as he sat on the platform, was the most distinguished in
the whole company.      The foreigners included a number
with whom I was already acquainted and others whom I
was now glad to meet for the first time.      From France
came the venerable Gosselet of Lille, A. de Lapparent,
and Charles Barrois ; from Germany, Baron F. von
Richthofen and Prof, von Zittel ; from Italy, Capellini
of Bologna ; from Portugal, Delgado and Choffat ; from
Switzerland, Renevier and Heim ; from Sweden, Dr.
Torell ; and from America a strong muster of geologists,
including G. K. Gilbert, C. D. Walcott, Professor
Marsh, G. H. Williams, and others.
    The experience of this meeting deepened the impression
made on my mind at the previous Congress in Berlin,
that not much of real scientific importance is accom
plished at these gatherings, and that their chief practical
value is to be recognised in the opportunities afforded for
friendly intercourse among geologists brought together
from all parts of the world.      Attempts were made at
some of the business meetings to draw up and enforce a
uniformity of stratigraphical nomenclature, but they met
with no general concurrence.     Those of us who did not
believe that any such unification could be of universal
application, except only for the larger divisions of

224     A. DE LAPPARENT, G. K. GILBERT
geological time, were not a little amused at the evident
disappointment and vexation of some of the older ter-
minologists, who came for the most part from small
countries.     Ferdinand Zirkel did not attend the Congress,
having gone to the East, but I saw much of De Lapparent,
who grew more charming the longer and more closely
one came to know him.       He became at once a delight to
my   children,  and  he was pleased to find that they could
chat with him in French.        He, Dr. Torell, and G. K.
Gilbert were my guests at Harrow during the time of the
Congress.
    It was a peculiar pleasure to have the company of
Gilbert, whom I regarded as the most able and accom
plished geologist in the United States.        I had studied
his published papers with the greatest interest and profit,
and personal contact now enhanced my estimation of his
powers.     I was about to make a tour of inspection in
the north of Ireland and invited him to accompany me.
As a citizen of the United States, he knew a good deal
about the Irish element among his own population, and
he had a strong desire to see the Irishman at home in the
Emerald Isle.       My tour gave him an opportunity to
make acquaintance with all aspects of Irish life, from the
broad and busy streets of Belfast to the squalid cabins of
Donegal.      He was initiated also into the dirt and dis
comfort of the little inns in some of the remoter and less
visited places, into the pleasures of the Irish car, and the
vagaries of its jarveys, as well as into the geological
problems that were puzzling the brains of the Irish staff.
    Gilbert also wished to visit Scotland, chiefly for the
purpose of seeing the famous Parallel Roads of Glen Roy.
As I had to be in Scotland after the Irish inspection was
completed, and had planned to cross direct from the
north of Ireland, he accompanied me.             Taking the
Giant's Causeway and the Antrim cliffs on the way, we
sailed from Larne and made a rapid journey to Fort
William, whence I conducted him to the Parallel Roads
and the great moraines of Glen Spean.        In the course of
our rambles we had occasion to ford the River Treig,

                  FORDING THE TREIG                       225
which happened to be fairly full at the time.         Gilbert,
with his trousers well tucked up, and his boots and stock
ings in his hands, was cautiously feeling his way across
the rough boulder-strewn river-bed, when he dropped
one of his boots, which was instantly swept down by the
rapid current for some distance, till luckily caught on an
islet.    When we resumed our walk on the other side, he
remarked that it was a pity so fine a stream as the Treig
should have no fish in it.      I assured him that it yielded
both trout and salmon.          He looked incredulous, and
          " But there are no
replied,                      poles along its banks," gravely
adding that     in the case  of the rivers of the Far West,
to which he was accustomed, it was the general belief
that no fish need be looked for, save in those streams
whose banks bear trees that can furnish fishing-rods !
Leaving my friend in Glen Spean to continue his detailed
examination of the Parallel Roads, which greatly interested
him in connection with his studies of the lake-terraces in
Western America, I went on into Argyllshire.
    The Duke of Argyll had found certain markings in
the rocks of his countryside, which he was persuaded were
relics of once living organisms, and as the discovery of
fossils in these ancient rocks would, if confirmed, be of
great importance in the investigation of Scottish geology,
he was naturally much excited over the discovery.          He
had long been interested in geological questions, and used
to attend the meetings of the Royal Physical Society in
Edinburgh, when Hugh Miller read a paper. It was
at one of these meetings that I first saw him.        Having
been enabled to bring to notice the occurrence of Tertiary
plants among the basalts of Mull, he had some claim to be
regarded as a geologist.        He was a firm adherent of
      "                      "
the     convulsionist school    in geology.   As far back as
1867 he had marked me out for criticism, and in a letter
read at the meeting of the British Association in Dundee
that year, he denounced in good set terms certain opinions
which I had published.        He was utterly opposed to the
importance which I attributed to denudation in the
gradual evolution of the topography of a land-surface,

226    MEETING AT INVERARAY CASTLE
where he, on the other hand, could only see proofs of
primeval convulsions and cataclysms.           My views as
applied to the elucidation of the history of Scottish scenery,
                                      " Gutter                I
he ultimately stigmatised as the                Theory."
did not reply to his attacks, which recalled Juvenal's line,
" si rixa est, ubi tu                                    I was
                      pulsas, ego vapulo tantum."
therefore somewhat surprised to receive from him a
courteous invitation to come to Inveraray and see the
great geological treasures which he had unearthed from
the rocks of his ancestral domain.        As I bore him no
enmity, in spite of the strength of his vituperation of my
opinions on denudation, and as I was as keenly anxious
as he could possibly be that fossils should be found in the
                         " find " had been
rocks from which his                         taken, I had no
hesitation in accepting his invitation.
   It happened that the day of my arrival at Inveraray was
that of a County Meeting, to which landed proprietors
came from all corners of Argyllshire.     In the evening they
were entertained to dinner at the Castle by the Duke.
Of course the Campbell clan mustered strong, clad in
their distinctive tartan. The Princess Louise and the
Marquis of Lome were residing with the Duke at the
time.    On coming into the drawing-room the Princess
went round the company, shaking hands with each one.
This ceremony over, the Duke led her into the dining-
room, and we all followed.       One of the lairds, Donald
Nicol, Younger of Ardmarnock, an old acquaintance of
mine, was good enough to sit next me at dinner, and from
him I was able to learn much about my fellow-guests.
   After dinner I was happy to meet the Sheriff of the
County, Mr. Forbes Irvine of Drum, who, with his
charming wife, was one of our most genial friends in the
old Edinburgh days.       Among the array of kilted Camp
bells in the company, there was one who specially attracted
my attention, as, in addition to the usual adornments of the
Highland garb, he bore a conspicuous silver key.               I
learnt that he was Campbell of Dunstaffnage, an estate
which he held from the head of the clan, the MacCallum
 Mohr, and that the key was that of the ruined castle,

       A COCKSURE PALAEONTOLOGIST                        227
 which on demand he was bound to present to the Duke.
 Of Campbell of Kilberry I had heard much from his son
 Angus, who was a school-mate of my son at Harrow, and
 often at my house there.       I was glad now to make
 acquaintance with the father.
    Next morning after breakfast the Duke took me to a
 small room in which he had laid out his supposed fossils.
 I examined the whole of the specimens with care and with
 the strongest desire to discover some trace of organic
 structure in them.     But I was compelled to confess that
 to my eyes not one of them showed any trace of organic
 origin. They were all common inorganic structures
 found among the schists. The Duke, however, remained
 convinced that he had made an important discovery.
 In the course of his subsequent correspondence with
 scientific authorities in London, he found one palaeon
 tologist who had the hardihood to declare that some of the
 specimens were in his opinion relics of organisms.     It so
 happened that some years before this time I had an
opportunity of testing this palaeontologist's scientific
acumen.      Among the coast cliffs of Berwickshire I had
one day come upon a large vertical face of smooth hard
shale which the country folk used as a target for rifle-
shooting.     The face of the rock was consequently pitted
with bullet marks, and loose bits of lead could be picked up
from the grass below.      On looking at the pittings on the
face of shale, I noticed in some of them a rudely stellate
arrangement of the bruised stone, made by the bullet as it
flattened out at the moment of impact.      These markings
might at first sight suggest an organism of some kind,
and I succeeded in flaking off a few pieces of the shale
which contained them.        Eventually I submitted these
specimens to the palaeontologist in question for his
opinion.     He at once, without hesitation, pronounced
them to be true fossils, probably of Cambrian age.          I
saved him from further committing himself to a surmise
of the probable genus to which they belonged by telling
him frankly what they were.       I could not mention this
incident at Inveraray, but it came to mind when the

228     THRUST-PLANES           ON SOUTH COAST
opinion of this palaeontological authority was cited and
relied on. The Duke, however, had made up his mind
that the things were of organic origin, and he communi
cated his discovery to the Royal Society of           Edin
       —           " mare's nest "              in
burgh     another                   chronicled     scientific
literature.
    Towards the end of 1888 the ninth edition of the
Encyclopaedia Britartnica, which had been in course of
preparation and publication for some fourteen years, was
completed.     The publishers, in celebration of the event,
invited  the large body of contributors to a dinner, which
was appropriately given in the hall of Christ's College,
Cambridge, under the auspices of the distinguished and
much-esteemed editor, W. Robertson Smith, then a
resident Fellow of the College.      As the author of the
longest article in the whole series of volumes, I was
called upon for a speech.
    In the year 1889 inspection duty in the field took up
more time than usual, involving the examination of much
ground in each of the three kingdoms.      This work began
 inFebruary and was continued at intervals, in one area after
another, the last of these not being completed until a few
days before Christmas.     In England the work lay chiefly
in the southern counties from Newton Abbot to East
bourne.     The most novel and interesting feature of the
re-examination of this coast-line by the staff, was the
discovery of a hitherto unnoticed form of dislocation
among the Secondary formations of the southern counties,
similar to the great thrust planes among the most ancient
rocks of the north-west Highlands, but on a much smaller
scale.   This structure had been detected in the chalk
on the coast of Dorset by A. Strahan, and at Eastbourne
by Clement Reid.      The lower members of the Cretaceous
series have there in some places been pushed over the
higher ; the Gault and Greensand, for example, have been
torn up and driven bodily over the chalk.    At Eastbourne,
where some of this remarkable dislocation is well exposed
on the beach, I induced Professor Huxley to join me in
examining it.     He had come to live permanently at this

           GEOLOGY OF N.-W. IRELAND                    229
coast-town, having found the climate of the place more
favourable to his health than that of London, and he was
now in the course of building himself a house, which he
liked to show to his friends, conducting them skilfully up
and down the scaffolding.       He was greatly interested
in the proofs of the stupendous upthrusting of the strata
laid bare on the beach.       I dined with him and Mrs.
Huxley after our walk.     He then looked more like his old
self than he had done for some time past, and was as
bright and brilliant as ever.
    During some weeks in the spring of this year I made
another attempt to ascertain whether the details of
structure which had now been fully worked out in the
north-west of Scotland could be used in the unravelling
of the arrangement of the crystalline rocks of the west of
Ireland.    As the area to be examined I chose the wild
rocky region that forms the western parts of the counties
of Mayo and Galway, from Benwee Head to Galway Bay.
Besides members of the Irish staff, Mr. B. N. Peach,
who was thoroughly conversant with the minutest details
of the mapping in Sutherland, accompanied me, in order
that his experience and knowledge should be available
for our purpose.     We traversed the coast-line of Mayo,
from Erris Head to Achill Sound, crossed Achill Island
to its great western precipice, and examined the southern
shores of Clew Bay.        Crossing Murrisk to Killary
Harbour, we spent some days on both sides of that fine
inlet.   From Clifden and Recess we explored the rocks of
Connemara, and ended our researches at the town of
Galway.
    The results of this tour were of interest, though they
threw less light than we had hoped on the most ancient
rocks of Ireland.     We found a large area of County
Galway to be occupied by a gneiss so similar in all its
lithological characters and topographical features to the
typical Lewisian gneiss of the north-west of Scotland that
had I been brought blindfolded to this region I would at
once have supposed myself to be in Sutherland, or among
the Outer Hebrides.       We could not devote the time

23o            IONA AND ST. COLUMBA
necessary   to trace out the relations    of this  mass to the
quartzites, limestones, and schists        whiclt so closely
resemble those of the central and south-western High
lands that one naturally         assumes    that they are a
continuation of these rocks, and have been affected by
similar intense dislocation, crushing, and metamorphism.
It was to me a subject of much regret that the tracts of
Mayo and Galway which we examined had already been
mapped by the Survey, and the maps of the ground had
been published, while the key to the structure of the coun
try was still undiscovered.      Possibly the key has been
destroyed by the complex plication and metamorphism
which the rocks have undergone, but the search for it
would be a worthy task for future geologists.
   From Ireland I crossed to Scotland, and while engaged
for some weeks in the west Highlands, had occasion to
visit the island of Iona, where the ruins and historical
associations on the one hand, and the geological interest
on the other, present unusual attractions.           The com
fortable little inn on the islet possessed a copy of Bishop
Reeve's edition of Adamnan's Life of St. Columba, which
I read from cover to cover. Wandering over the lonely
scene, and tracing the topographical            features    more
especially connected with the Saint, one could enter so
fully into the spirit of the place that it seemed as if it
would hardly have been a surprise to come upon Columba
himself and his white horse. The remarkable Celtic
verses descriptive of the scenery of this little western isle,
which have come down to us as the composition of the
Saint, are so tenderly true to the life that we may well
believe them to have been written by him.                  Their
author was certainly endowed with great appreciation
of the charms of Nature, and had the poetic gift of vividly
depicting them as they filled his eyes and ears with delight.
We can picture him sitting
                               "
                                  on the pinnacle of a rock
                                                               "
and taking his fill of a scene of which he loved every
         "
detail — the heaving waves of the wide ocean when they
                                   "    "
chant music to their Father          ;    the level sparkling
                 " the song of the wonderful birds
                                                         "
strand," with                                              ; and

              OLDER ROCKS OF IRELAND                          231
"                                         " with      "
   the roar of the surrounding sea                its   monsters,
                                           "
the greatest of all wonders," and            the thunder   of  the
crowding waves upon the rocks." 1
    It was strange that this quiet spot, so redolent of
memories of the early Celtic Church and monastic
solitude, could on a sudden be converted into a crowded
scene of gaping tourists struggling to make the most of
the hour between the arrival and departure of the steam
boat that brought them from Oban.              On the excursion
day I crossed to the western shore, with its little bays and
rocky promontories, laved by the clear waters of the open
Atlantic, and with no sign or sound of man.
    An interesting discovery had recently been made in
Scandinavia, of Palaeozoic fossils in rocks now meta
morphosed into schists.           Anxious to leave no evidence
unexamined which might throw light upon the problems
of metamorphism with which the Survey was confronted
in Scotland and Ireland, I made a brief excursion to
Norway in the July of this year.               My friend Hans
Reusch, Director of the Geological Survey of that
country, by whom the fossils had been found, kindly
furnished me with an itinerary to guide me to the most
important localities in the Bergen region, and I was to
meet him afterwards at Trondhjem.            The Bergen ground
was easily examined in a week.           The more northern area
was much more extensive, and required longer time.             On
reaching Trondhjem I found no trace of Reusch (who
had never received my letter) and began the exploration
inland by myself.            By mere chance he turned up one
evening at a little inn, where I happened to be lodging for
 the night.      We made the rest of the tour in company.
 It was a most instructive experience in problems of meta
 morphism, and my observations completely filled a note
 book, though I did not succeed in finding the solution of
 some of the difficulties in Scotland and Ireland for which
 I was seeking. From the Trondhjem Stift I went by
 train to Christiania, where two days were spent with
    1 A translation of this beautiful poem will be found in Skene's
 Celtic Scotland, vol. ii. p. 92.

232    FOREIGN SECRETARY ROYAL SOCIETY
Professor Brogger, who led me over the ground which he
has so minutely studied.      At the Newcastle meeting of
the British Association in September I gave a brief ouiiline
of this work in Norway, intending to prepare a longer
paper from the ample details which I had collected, but
the leisure for this task never came.      Eight years later,
on the occasion of a brief visit to Norway, I had another
opportunity of studying the Christiania rocks, again under
the guidance of Professor Brogger.         On this occasion
we were accompanied by Dr. Nansen, and on some excur
sions into the interior, it was interesting to see the popu
larity of the Arctic explorer among his fellow-countrymen.
In quiet out of the way villages through which it was
known he would pass, he was received with an ovation of
flags and cheers, and the children were given a holiday
that they might see the great Norwegian.
   At the Anniversary of the Royal Society on 30th
November, 1889, I was elected Foreign Secretary, an
honour for which I was unprepared, and which, had I been
consulted beforehand, would not improbably have been
declined, from a belief that its duties could not be properly
discharged by one whose official work led him to be so
much absent from London.         The duties of the Secretary
for Foreign Correspondence proved, however, to be much
less onerous than I had supposed.         They include con
ducting the correspondence with foreign parts relating to
the business of the Society, returning thanks to foreigners
for presents made to the Society, and forwarding their
diplomas of election to Foreign Members.            The most
important part of the functions of the office consists in
the share which the holder is called upon to take, with the
other officers, in considering and arranging the business
to be discussed by the Council.     The office is held for four
years.    Eventually I was able so to plan my inspection
work as to miss few of the stated Council meetings.
These four years of experience in the business of the
Royal Society proved of considerable value in the sub
sequent much more intimate connection with the whole
work of the Society which I was destined to enjoy.

     COLLECTION AT HARROW SCHOOL                         233
    The year 1889 also brought     a  number of diplomas of
honorary membership of foreign Academies and learned
Societies. These came mostly from Germany, and
included the Berlin Academy of Sciences, an election
largely brought about, as I heard, by my friend Professor
Lossen, and the Royal Society of Sciences of Gottingen,
where I succeeded to the place left vacant by the death of
my venerable Swiss friend Studer.        The Royal Society of
Edinburgh now awarded to        me   for  the second time its
 Makdougall-Brisbane medal.
    During the latter half of this year the quiet happiness
of my home was again overshadowed by illness in the
family.    Roderick, as the outcome of a severe cold,
developed symptoms which, in our medical man's opinion,
were serious enough to make it advisable that he should
winter on the Riviera.      He had done well at Harrow
School, having been moved up into the upper sixth, the
highest form.     At this time he stood seventh among his
class-fellows, and this place was to be kept for him.     He
was so much younger than the other boys, that there
seemed a possibility that he would eventually become
Head of the School. But it had for some time been
evident to us that a home-boarder, though enjoying the
advantages of family life under the parental roof, never
obtains quite the full benefit of mingling intimately with
the other boys, of learning discipline and subordination,
and of acquiring a sense of responsibility and a capacity
for control.    I therefore arranged that on his return to
Harrow he    should enter the house of Mr. F. E. Marshall.
Meanwhile, on 17th October my wife took him and his
sisters to Cannes, there to join her mothe* in the same
pleasant villa as before.
    The mention of Harrow reminds me that in the spring
of 1889 I devoted a good deal of time and thought to
the formation of a collection of specimens to illustrate the
fundamental principles of Geology.          These I arranged
in a series of wall-cases and table-cases in the Butler
Museum, which forms one of the school buildings at
Harrow.      To make this collection useful to the boys, I

234     PRESIDENT GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY
wrote a hand-book to it which, with many illustrative
wood-cuts, was printed and published in June.
   The family being abroad and our house at Harrow in
charge of a caretaker, I lived during the winter mostly at
the Athenaeum, with sleeping-quarters not far distant.
As the days grew shorter and the London fogs became
denser, the end of the week often brought me into the
country.    Especially pleasant were occasional visits to one
or other of the Universities.
   At the beginning of 1890 the retiring President of the
Geological Society informed me that there was a general
desire that I should be his successor in the Chair.     Some
years previously   I had been   sounded on  this subject, but
had declined the honour of the Presidentship on the
ground of my frequent absence from London.          But there
was no Society to which I felt so strongly bound as to this.
It was the first learned body to elect me into its member
ship at the age of three and twenty, and my associations
with it were many and pleasant.       I was well aware that
the duties of its Presidentship were much more onerous
than those of the Foreign Secretaryship of the Royal
Society, and the work of the Geological Survey still con
tinued to require my frequent absence in the country.
But all my predecessors in the Survey had filled the Chair
of the Geological Society, and to continue to decline the
office might be interpreted as indicative of some dislike of
 the Society.    I therefore now accepted the invitation,
fully appreciating the honour, and hoping that it would be
found possible adequately to discharge its duties, if the
 Council would permit me to delegate some of these duties
to a Vice-president, when the public service required my
 absence from London.        At the Anniversary on 21st
 February   I was duly elected.    The office is held for two
 years.   During that time I was able so to arrange the
 inspection work that the aid of a deputy was seldom
 required.    I began badly, however, for it had long been
 settled that I should join my family at Cannes, and in
 fulfilment of that arrangement I left immediately after
 the election, and did not return to London for some weeks.

        AN IRISH TRAVELLING INCIDENT                        135
    This year in   the west of Ireland I met with    one  of the
accidents to which travellers in the national one-horse
outside-cars are always liable.      We were trotting down a
not very steep hill when the horse suddenly tripped and
fell, the car and driver being shot forward over the
prostrate animal.      My companion was pitched out on
one side of the road, while I with my despatch box was
launched forth on the other.       Except for a few scratches
and bruises and a plentiful coating of dust on our clothes,
we were none the worse.           The shafts, however, were
broken and the horse considerably damaged, so that
further progress with that car was impossible.        We were
on a lonely road, still some     six  or seven miles  from the
little town in which we meant to pass the night, and
evening was rapidly settling down.          In the end a cart
came up, bound for a neighbouring farm.          Its driver was
persuaded    to transport us and  our  baggage  to our destina
tion, where we arrived when night had set in.         The light
from the candle in the window of a little shop revealed to
the local constable the unusual contents of the cart.        He
accompanied us till he saw us and our belongings trans
ferred to the little inn, and doubtless made enquiries as to
what we were and what our business might be in this
remote corner of Ireland.
     Sir George G. Stokes, having held the office of Presi
dent of the Royal Society for the usual period of five years,
would retire on next St. Andrew's Day. The most out
standing man to succeed him was another illustrious
physicist, Sir William Thomson, afterwards Lord Kelvin.
When the subject was mentioned to him, he was unwilling
to have his name proposed.           I had several interviews
with him, and found that his main objection lay in his
loyalty to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, of which he
was then President.        The Council of that Society, he
said, had been so good to him that he could not resign
this Presidentship in order to accept another, and that
he set a high value on the honour of the post which he
 now held.      To remove this obstacle, the only course to
 be followed was to ascertain whether the Council in

  236           THE DUKE OF ARGYLL
  Edinburgh would be willing to help us in the matter. As
 an old member of that Council, and having friendly rela
 tions with its leading members, I was asked to undertake
 the mediation.      The application  was speedily successful.
 The Council agreed not to nominate Sir William at the
 next annual election, on the understanding that after he
 had served the usual time as head of the Royal Society of
 London, he would be willing to resume his former place
 in the Scottish Society.   The way was thus opened for his
 acceptance   of our  nomination,  and he was duly elected on
 the following St. Andrew's Day.
     The Duke of Argyll with indomitable enthusiasm, con
 tinued this year, more vigorously than ever, his search for
 fossils in the rocks around Inveraray.    He reported to me
 every fresh discovery, and sent up specimens to London
 that should convince the unbelievers in the south.       Early
 in the year he wrote that he had found in the Glen Aray
 schists, worms so distinct as to make him, he said,
 "                                   When samples of these
    independent of all experts."
 " worms " reached me I found them to be
                                                      pieces of
 crushed amygdaloidal diabase — an ancient igneous rock,
wherein no organisms were to be looked for.                 My
opinion was independently confirmed by all the staff of
petrographers and palaeontologists at the Jermyn Street
 Museum. In order to aid him in looking for the kind of
rock in which organic remains might possibly be found, I
sent him specimens of some of the fossiliferous schists
which I had collected in Norway. The limestones on the
east side of Loch Awe are in some places so little affected
by metamorphism that it is hard to believe that fossils
will not ultimately be found in them. My Norwegian
specimens, however, directed the Duke's investigation
into a new and equally hopeless channel, and led to a
bombardment of letters and telegrams from him.          He had
found what he believed to be a       bed of corals."    I could
not make out anything like a fossil in his drawings,
though one of them seemed to suggest that he might
really have hit upon something organic.         He urged me
to come and see the place with my own eyes.        It would be

        HISTORY OF VOLCANIC ACTION                       237
an important discovery in Highland geology, and a new
feather in the Highland bonnet of the MacCallum Mohr,
if he were successful this time. So, heartily wishing that
he had lighted upon some indisputable fossils, but quite
prepared for another disappointment, I went with him to
the place of his great
                        " find." But the rock in which his
fossils lay proved again to be a basic igneous rock which
was associated with limestone, quartzite and coarse pebbly
                         " corals " were
grit. The supposed                       only slicken-sided
veinings of calcite, without a trace of anything organic
about them.     Being on the ground, I carefully searched a
mass of limestone near the head of Glen Aray, which
showed the little-altered character of these rocks.   On its
weathered surface I detected projecting minute spherical
bodies that recalled the manner in which the foraminifer
Saccammina appears on a weathered face of Carboniferous
limestone.    But though specimens were submitted to the
petrographers and palaeontologists at headquarters, their
united experience would not vouch for the organic nature
of even these suspicious globular projections.
   At the anniversary of the Geological Society, held in
February each year, it is the duty of the President to give
an address in which some account is presented of the
progress of geology, or of some department of the science
with which the speaker is more specially connected.       As
has been recorded in the foregoing chapters, ever since
entering the Geological Survey, for more than five and
thirty years, I had been studying the history of volcanic
action in the British Isles, and had from time to time
published the results of my researches.      In 1867 I had
given a summary of all that was then known on the subject
in an address to the Geological Section of the British
Association.    Since that date, in the course of journeys
in all parts of the three kingdoms, I had never lost an
opportunity of visiting every volcanic area within reach,
until, in the end, few or none of the known localities were
left which I had not seen with my own eyes.      I therefore
chose this subject as the theme of my first discourse from
the Geological Society's Chair at the Anniversary in 1891.

 238     OLENELLUS FOUND IN SCOTLAND
 So ample had my observations grown that in that address
only the earlier portion of the volcanic record of our
islands could be given, from Archaean time to the close
of the Silurian period.
    Another of the necessary duties of the President at these
annual reunions is to read obituaries of Fellows, Foreign
Members and Correspondents who have died since the
previous Anniversary.        Among these notices I gave an
account of my esteemed colleague, Andrew Crombie
Ramsay, who died on the 9th of the preceding December.
This sketch of him brought from his widow a grateful
letter of thanks.    When a year had passed after this time,
and no movement had been initiated to have a fuller and
more adequate biography of him, I proposed to her that
if no one else thought of taking it up, I would be glad
to write it.   She at once and cordially assented.         The
materials which the family supplied, and what could be
collected by myself, enabled me to compile, with my whole
heart, the record of my friend's life which was published
in 1895 as an octavo volume of some 400 pages.
   The most important incident in the field-work of the
Survey this year was the discovery, in the north-west of
Sutherland, of a certain trilobite (Olenellus), characteristic
of the lower parts of the Cambrian system. This addition
to our knowledge showed that the quartzites and lime
stones of that region are of Cambrian age, and that the
Torridon sandstone, which had hitherto been labelled
" Cambrian " was
                       immensely more ancient.       So crucial
a discovery had to be substantiated by detailed mapping
of the ground and the accurate determination of the
geological horizon of the fossil.        In the course of my
inspection during July, I had an opportunity of visiting
                        " find."
the scene of the first            It lay among the mountains
to the south of Little Loch Broom, eight miles from any
road fit for wheeled traffic.    All food and other supplies
had to be transported on the backs of ponies.        The same
mode of conveyance served also for the portmanteau of any
visitor, while he himself would usually make the journey
on foot along the same rough track.        At this remote spot

   SOUTH WALES RE-MAPPED BY SURVEY                         239
I  found that my colleagues, Peach and Home, had made
their camp, and had been joined by three others of the
staff, all eager to see in detail the strata which had yielded
the trilobite.    In spite of heavy rain, with fair intervals
in which the midges and horse-flies were active, we made a
merry party, and saw with the utmost satisfaction and
               "
pleasure the     Olenellus-zone," as developed in the north
west of Scotland.      Since that time the
                                             " zone " has been
followed for many miles, occupying a definite position
in the group of fossiliferous strata which overlie the
massive quartzites.
    A new departure was now made by the Geological
Survey.      The great coalfield of South Wales had been
surveyed long ago by W. E. Logan, whose maps were
adopted and published in the early days of the Survey by
De La Beche. Logan's mapping, however, on the scale
of one inch to a mile, though remarkably good so far as it
went, could not adequately represent in detail the structure
of the ground.      Moreover, since his time sixty years had
passed away, during which a great development of under
ground workings had brought much fresh information to
light. The old maps were quite out of date, and of little
or no practical utility.      In compliance with the public
demand, the Government of the day determined that this
wide area, so important in the mineral industry of the
country, should be entirely re-surveyed upon maps on
the scale of six inches to the mile.        We lost no time in
carrying out this resolution, and continued the work for
some years until maps of the whole coalfield on the larger
scale were available to the public.
    The British Association by a happy coincidence met
this year at Cardiff, under the presidentship of Sir
William Huggins.         I attended the meeting, and gave at
the Geological Section an account of the discovery of the
 "                   " in
    Olenellus-zone         Ross-shire, and of the latest work
of the Survey among the most ancient gneisses of the
 north-west Highlands.        At this meeting I was elected
 President of the Association, which would meet the follow
 ing year at Edinburgh.        A succession of honours came

 24o        A SUCCESSION OF HONOURS
to me this year.     One of the most agreeable was election as
 Correspondent    of the Academy of Sciences in the Institute
of France. The University of Cambridge conferred on
me the honorary degree of Doctor in Science.             The most
unexpected of all came in the following letter :
   Private.                                28th May,      1
                                                            89 1.
 My dear Sir,
             I have   much pleasure in being authorised to
inform you that the Queen has been pleased to confer
upon you the honour of Knighthood, on the occasion of
Her Majesty's Birthday, in token of Her appreciation of
your valuable services as Director-General of the Geo
logical Survey of the United Kingdom.
    It is a matter of great satisfaction to me to be the means
 of making this communication to you.
                          Believe me,
                                      Yours faithfully,
                                                     Salisbury.
   In due course    the royal command reached me to appear
on 30th July at Osborne.             The doings of this day were
fully  described  in  a letter  to   my mother-in-law which has
been preserved, and from which a few sentences may here
be quoted :
   "
      My name was called first, and when the door of the
audience chamber was opened, there stood Her Majesty —
a bowed and bent old lady, but still queenly, supporting
herself with a stick in her left hand.        Her back being to
the light, I could not see her face so well as I could have
wished.     On one side stood the Princess Beatrice, and on
the other the equerry with his drawn sword, ready for
execution ; while Lord Cranbrook, nearer the door, held
the list in his hand from which to name the visitors in due
succession.
   "
      Bowing low, I advanced in front of the Queen and
knelt on my right knee.        She took the sword, and tapping
me gently first on the left and then on the right shoulder,
                                   '
said in a deep hollow voice, Rise, Sir Archibald.'             That

            KNIGHTHOOD          CONFERRED              241
voice, so different from what I had fancied it to be, gave
me a momentary shock, but I quickly recovered, and
pressed gently to my lips the aged wrinkled hand, half
covered with a mitten, which the Queen held out to me.
   " Though I had seen her Majesty at various public
functions, I had never been so near her before, and had
not realised that she was so feeble.   The whole incident
was over in almost less time than I have taken to write
this account of it. I rose, and bowing again, retired back
wards and so outwards into the corridor."
    A.G.

                      CHAPTER VIII
MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
                           ( i 892-1 896)
The Anniversary        of the Geological Society on 19th
February, 1892,      when    my tenure of the Presidentship
expired, was remarkable for an incident of a kind as
interesting as it was unusual.           Three weeks before the
meeting I received the following letter from Miss Yule,
daughter of the late Sir Henry Yule, the eminent geo
grapher, and an old friend of Sir Roderick Murchison,
dated from her residence in France, 28th January, 1892 :
    " I observe that the Annual
                                       Meeting of the Geological
Society will be held on the 19th February              That day,
as you may remember, was Sir Roderick's birthday, this
Anniversary is the centenary of his birth, and having a
very strong affection for Sir Roderick, I should like to lay
           '
                                     that day, if you will kindly
                                   '
a small      stone on his cairn
enable me to do so.
    "It  has occurred to me that the. way of marking the day,
most consonant with his own habits and taste, would be
to make the occasion the excuse for giving a little help to
some unprosperous brother of the Hammer.                And I am
 desirous to devote to that object a sum of at least fifty
 pounds — more if I find I could afford it.         I should wish
                                       '
 to offer it anonymously, simply in grateful remembrance
 of Feb. 19, 1792,' or the like. Now the favour I would
 ask of you is :
    "
       1st. That, if you approve of the idea, you would
 select a suitable recipient, by preference from our own
 dear country or from Siluria (you may interpret the latter
                                  242

            MISS YULE'S BENEFACTION                      243
 designation either geographically or geologically).    I do
 not absolutely exclude South Britain, but confess I
should prefer a candidate from any other part of the
 kingdom, or even from France.
    "
      2nd. That you would kindly secure that it should be
 presented officially through the President at the Anniver
sary   Meeting.
    "
      You would      be quite at liberty to bring my name
 before the Council if required, though not before the
 public.   I suppress my name ; first, because I would
wish to avoid all stain of self from this act of piety, and
also that this little homage to our friend's honoured (but
fading) memory should have a chance to be attributed to
 some one less insignificant than the present writer."
    I had known Miss Yule for some years, and on many
 occasions had noticed her veneration for Murchison, as
well as her love of Scotland.       A week after the receipt
of her letter she came to England and had an interview
with me, at which it was arranged that her gift, now
increased to £100, should be divided between two geo
logists who were following in Murchison 's footsteps, and
had been doing admirable work in unravelling the com
plicated geological structure of the Scottish Highlands —
Benjamin N. Peach and John Home, both on the staff of
the Geological Survey of Scotland.       To her money gift,
 Miss Yule added for each of the recipients, a framed
portrait of Murchison.       It was my happy privilege to
present her gift to my old and trusty friend B. N. Peach,
who attended the Anniversary, and at the same time to
hand to him the other half of the generous donation to be
conveyed to his colleague John Home.
    These two members, whose names are so often men
tioned in these chapters, were the Castor and Pollux of
the Geological Survey, always closely associated in their
scientific work, and coupled together in the appreciation
of the value of that work expressed both by their col
leagues and by the outside world.      Yet no two men in the
whole staff were more strongly marked off from each other.
Peach, with the eyes of a hawk, the enthusiasm of a youth

244   PEACH AND HORNE OF THE SURVEY
and the perception of a veteran, was, in my opinion,
the ablest field-geologist      in this country.       Nothing
escaped   his notice.   He  had  the intuitive gift of realising
swiftly, and almost always correctly, the meaning of what
he saw.      Even where his very rapidity of perception led
him sometimes into error, his mistakes were those of a
genius.     In the full plenitude of his remarkable gifts, he
dearly loved to argue in a disputed question of geological
structure, becoming more and more excited as the argu
ment grew warmer, his strong voice growing so loud
that the replies of his opponent could hardly be heard.
At the same time his good nature was never ruffled, and
his ready helpfulness was always forthcoming for any one
who asked it.      The only serious defect under which he
laboured was his repugnance to the use of the pen.           He
would rather walk a mile than write a letter.        He lacked
the literary fluency which would have enabled him to
obtain the full advantage of his exceptional abilities.
Had he been able and willing to be at the trouble of
putting his observations and conclusions into written
form, he would undoubtedly have taken a very high place
among the geological writers of his time.      Though below
middle height he was stoutly built, and when in his prime,
was of great physical strength and endurance.             He is
still alive and enjoys fairly good health ; his thick crop
of hair, now grown snow-white, makes his head a con
spicuous and attractive feature in any company.          Unfor
tunately he has been liable to occasional failures of health,
especially to attacks of sciatica and rheumatic gout,
brought on or aggravated by the enthusiasm with which,
through rain and mist and bitter winds, across bogs and
streams, often up to the knees in water, he would con
tinue his field-work as long as daylight lasted.
    John Home is of a wholly different type. Without
the originality and observational powers of Peach, he is
unquestionably a highly intelligent, patient, and inde
fatigable investigator, slow to draw conclusions until he
has exhausted all the obtainable evidence, accurate and
careful in his work, and happily possessing the art of

             MISS      YULE AND MURCHISON                           245
describing, in clear and succinct language, his observations
and the deductions to be drawn from them.                   Prompt in
correspondence,        and   methodical    in  all business    require
ments, he was naturally selected to be the Director of the
Scottish branch of the Survey, and his senior colleague
Peach fully recognised the propriety of the appointment.
It is mainly to Home's persistent and imperturbable efforts
to extract from Peach the story of his work in the field,
and to place that story fully before the world in clear
language, that science owes the series of conjoint writings
with which their names are associated.                   After Home
retired from the public service, on the pension which he
had so well earned, his scientific reputation, tact, and
business capacity led to his election as President of the
Royal Society of Edinburgh, an office which he worthily
filled for several years.1
     To return to the Geological Society's Anniversary ;
while the proceedings were in progress at the Society's
apartments in Burlington House, Miss Yule, as I after
wards learnt, was engaged at the Brompton Cemetery
with a pail of water and a scrubbing brush, piously
removing the London soot from the gravestone of
Murchison and his wife.             Her devotion to the memory
of the old chief was still more strikingly manifested in
later years.       After Sir Henry Yule's death, when she had
realised his estate, she resolved to make her home in
Scotland, and the house which she chose as her residence
was the mansion-house of Tarradale, Murchison's birth
place at the head of the Beauly Firth.                 She obtained a
lease of this residence and lived there.               Eventually she
persuaded the owner, Mr. Baillie of Dochfour, to sell the
property to her.         In that remote spot, consecrated by her
romantic attachment to the memory of the illustrious
man who was born there, she spent the later years of her
 beneficent life, until her death on 24th August, 1916.
    1 Since these lines were written the two
                                              geologists have again been
 bracketed as the recipients of the approbation of their geological
 brethren.    At the Council of the Geological Society held on 5th
 January, 192 1, it was unanimously agreed to award the Wollaston
medal in duplicate to B. N. Peach and John Home.

 246   MISS YULE'S BEQUEST OF TARRADALE
But though she has passed away, she has left a permanent
memorial of her regard for Murchison, and of her
benevolent nature, as well as of the perfervidum ingenium
Scotorum which throbbed so warmly in her heart.             By
her will she bequeathed her house of Tarradale, together
with the grounds and contents and the residue of her
money, to be held in trust by her executors, the Lord
Lieutenant of Ross and Cromarty, and the Chairman for
the time being of the County Council of Ross and
                  "
Cromarty, for        the rest and refreshment of poor scholars
or other students, preferentially but not exclusively for
those no longer young and for other causes unable to seek
such refreshment unassisted.           These must be British
subjects, and of Scottish, preferably Highland birth or
descent.     If the house were kept open only three or four
months in the year, the funds hereinafter assigned should
be sufficient to pay the necessary expenses of maintenance
and upkeep and a resident janitor or housekeeper.         I do
not wish the Memorial to be eleemosynary, but to afford
some help to those who will help themselves.              The
                                     '
bequest is to be known as the Murchison of Tarradale
Memorial '."
   When Miss Yule died her funds were found to be
considerably less than they were at the time when she
made her will, owing partly to the fall in the value of
securities, and partly to encroachments on her capital
which her generous nature prompted her to make on
behalf of various war objects.       Some delay may therefore
be necessary before the executors are in a position to carry
out her benevolent scheme.
   Chiefly for educational purposes it had been arranged
that my wife and daughters should spend the winter of
1891-92 in Paris, while for those months I should take up
bachelor life in London, with the Athenaeum Club as
headquarters.       After the beginning of the new year an
ailment   attacked     me that turned eventually into jaun
dice, by which I was completely disabled.       My old friend
Dr. Lauder Brunton, after full examination, insisted that I
must stop all engagements for two or three months and go

  FIRST APPLICATION FOR SICK LEAVE                       247
abroad, so as to be quite away from the temptation of
work.    For the first time in thirty-seven years passed in
the public service, I was compelled to apply to head
quarters for sick-leave.   The two months asked for were
at once granted.
   I joined the family in their pleasant rooms in the
Avenue Marceau, as soon as all duties at the Geological
Society were cleared off.     The medical order to do no
work was obeyed somewhat regretfully, but it did not
prevent one from enjoying pleasant rambles with one or
other of the home circle in Paris, nor from meeting one's
French friends, and increasing their number.            As a
Correspondent of the Institut de France I attended the
weekly meetings of the Académie des Sciences, and met
there many of the more eminent men of science of the day.
Pasteur charmed me by the quiet dignity, courtesy and
modesty of his manner.       One day he drew an amusing
contrast between the scanty accommodation accorded to
science in the Palais de l'lnstitut with what he called the
palatial quarters provided for the scientific Societies at
Burlington House. I was able to assure him that we had
already almost out-grown the quarters assigned to us, and
would before long be as cramped for book-space as they
were at the Institut.
    One of my most esteemed friends in Paris was A.
Daubree, Professor of Geology at the Muséum d'Histoire
Naturelle.    We had long corresponded and exchanged
publications.    It was now possible to cultivate more
intimate personal relations.    He was at this time seventy-
five years of age.   His active career was practically ended,
but he continued to take a keen interest in the advance of
his favourite science.    From this time onward till his
death, our friendship became increasingly close, and when
we met in the street he always saluted in French fashion
by kissing me on each cheek.         I never met a simpler,
more unaffected and kindly nature than his, or one where
eminent success had left inherent modesty more unim
 paired.   It was worth while to be invalided in Paris to
 enjoy his genial company.

248      GAUDRY, FOUQUE, MICHEL-LEVY
    Another friend, Jean Albert Gaudry, was Professor of
Palaeontology at the Muséum.          Some thirteen years
younger than Daubrée, he was still in full vigour, living
with his accomplished wife in a pleasant roomy mansion
not far from the Institut, where he loved to entertain his
friends.    There was a neat spruceness about his manner
and dress which made him look younger than he really
was.      He greatly valued his cordial relations with
English-speaking men of science, and took care to culti
vate these relations.
    With Ferdinand Fouqué, now in his sixty-fourth year,
Professor of the Natural History of Inorganic Bodies at
the College de France, my acquaintance had grown into a
friendship which was to become henceforth more intimate.
He was a thoroughly domesticated man, living in the
midst of his family circle in a large house in the Rue
Humboldt.       Under his hospitable roof my daughter
Lucy and I passed many pleasant hours, in the midst
of a cultivated, genial and characteristically French
household.     As a man of science he stood at the head of
French petrographers.      He had also made important con
tributions to the study of earthquakes.     His daughter,
who afterwards married M. Lacroix, inherited her father's
geniality and ardour for science, and has shared in her
husband's explorations at home and abroad.     M. Fouque"
has passed away, but his affectionate regard for me has
been continued by his daughter and his son-in-law.
M. Lacroix has risen rapidly in reputation and is the
acknowledged successor of Fouqué in the same line of
research.    In 19 14 he was elected Secrétaire Perp&uel
de   l'Académie  des Sciences.
    Closely  associated  with Professor Fouque was his
friend Auguste Michel-Lévy, Director of the Carte
Géologique de France, another of the same brilliant band
of investigators. He welcomed me to his office, where he
showed his latest results in the study of the microscopic
structure of rocks, and to his family circle at his bright
home in the Rue Spontini.       His tall and broad figure
suggested that of a strong man, and his friends looked

            PROFESSOR A. DE LAPPARENT                         249
forward to his continuing for many years at the head of
-French official geologists, but he died in 191 1.        He was
at this time wonderfully active and alert, quick in per
ception, forceful and emphatic in the affirmation of his
opinions, but always courteous and friendly.
     With these magnates should be classed Professor
A. de Lapparent, to whom reference has already been
made.       The acquaintance with him, begun at Berlin,
had grown into warm friendship, with an active exchange
of letters. It was pleasant now to meet him under his own
roof and in the midst of his family.              He was certainly
one of the most accomplished Frenchmen I ever met.
To a full share of the typical graciousness and courtesy
of his fellow-countrymen, he united a sincerity and depth
of feeling altogether remarkable. He was genial and
witty as a companion.        As an impromptu speaker, he had
few rivals in scientific circles for the readiness, grace, and
humour with which he could reply to any unexpected
call.     A devout Catholic, he must often have had a diffi
cult part to play in the midst of the irreligious politicians
of the day, and I heard, but never from him, that his
orthodoxy had stood in the way of his appointment to one
or other of the official posts which he was particularly well
qualified to hold.       There could not have been a higher
testimony to his ability, tact and personal charm than
his being chosen in 1907 by the Academy of Sciences
their Secretaire Perpetual — an honourable position which
he had only held for a few months when his career was
cut short by death.1
     At one of the sittings of the Academy a curious incident
occurred.       A Professor having resigned his Chair, which
was a Government appointment, the Academy was called
 upon to furnish the Minister of State with the names
or two candidates, either of whom might become his
 successor.      I sat beside the retiring Professor, who told
    1 Since these lines of appreciation were written an excellent
 " Notice " of
                A. de Lapparent by Professor A. Lacroix (who suc
 ceeded him in the Secretaryship) was issued in December 1920 in
 the Memoirs of the Acadimie des Sciences, Paris.

 250   VOTING AT ACADEMIE DES SCIENCES
 me that his assistant     would be appointed.        When the
voting papers    were  emptied  out  of the urn, the   President,
A. T. D'Abbadie, with octogenarian deliberation, un
 folded and read them aloud.        It was soon apparent that
 not the assistant, but the other candidate was the choice
of the great majority of the Academicians.           I turned to
the Professor and asked the meaning of this voting.             It
 had evidently surprised and vexed him, and he gave vent
 to his feeling by exclaiming impatiently
                                                   "             "
                                                      Stupide !
As the result of the scrutiny the other man was shown to
have the great majority of votes.       His name was accord
ingly placed    en -premiere ligne,  and  that of the assistant
was put below.      Normally the Minister would accept the
first name on the list as that of the candidate recommended
by the Academy.         But in this case the assistant had
powerful political friends, whom the Government would
rather not displease.      So the assistant duly became Pro
fessor,  to the regret  of men of science.
    After an absence of six weeks in France I returned to
duty on 7th April restored in health, and by the end of the
month the family was once more established at home.
The main objects for which we had resided six years at
Harrow were now accomplished.             Our daughters had
come through the various ailments of childhood, and now
needed greater facilities for education.         Our son had
enjoyed the advantages of home life during his earlier
years at the school, and, to enable him to reap the full
advantages of public-school life, he had been placed in the
house of one of the assistant masters, of which he was now
head, as well as prospective Head of the School.             My
official duties had grown more onerous, and to them were
added the claims of commissions, committees, councils,
boards, and other organisations which could not be put
aside.    For some time it had become increasingly obvious
that to be resident in London would save much time,
though at the loss of fresh air and of the garden which we
loved so much.      In October 1892 we moved family and
household goods to Chester Terrace, Regent's Park.
    On returning to London from Paris I found such an

       COMMISSION ON WATER-SUPPLY                        251
accumulation of arrears and of new work as detained me
at headquarters until the end of July.           I had been
appointed   member    of  a Royal Commission    on the water-
supply of London, the object of which was to ascertain
whether the basins of the Thames and Lea could for a
time continue to furnish an adequate supply of water
for the needs of the metropolis, or if it would soon be
necessary to seek a further supply outside the watersheds
of these rivers. The meetings of this Commission, of
which Lord Balfour of Burleigh was Chairman, began in
May and were continued at frequent intervals, except in
August and September, up to the end of the year. After
hearing much evidence we came to the conclusion that
there was no immediate necessity to go outside the
present sources of supply.        The intercourse with the
Chairman,     which   the meetings of this Commission
brought about, led to the foundation of a pleasant
friendship with Lord and Lady Balfour.
   About the same time that the Water Commission was
appointed, I was asked to serve on a Departmental Com
mittee of the Board of Agriculture to enquire into the
conditions of the Ordnance Survey, especially with
reference to the expediting of the one-inch map, to the
arrangements that should be made for the continuous
revision of the maps published by the Survey, and to
possible improvement in execution, form, information
conveyed, and price.      The meetings of this Committee, of
which Sir John Dorington, Bart., M.P., was Chairman,
were also numerous, and the work to be accomplished, like
that of the Water Commission, was full of interest as well
as  of great public utility.
   Another duty outside one's normal official life came this
summer.      Professor Tyndall, who had for some years
represented the Royal Society on the Board of Governors
of Harrow School, intimated his resignation of the office,
owing to failing health, and the Council asked me to
succeed him.      My interest in the School was so keen that
I gladly accepted the post. At the close of the prize-
giving on 29th June, Mr. Welldon, the headmaster, made

252        TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN
a  kindly allusion to this appointment and to Roderick,
who was now to become Head of the School.               For
thirty years the duties of this Governorship were a con
tinual source of interest and pleasure to me, and only the
advance of old age compelled me in 1922 to relinquish
them.     As representative of the Royal Society on the
Governing Body, it was more especially incumbent on me
to watch over the teaching of science in the School, and
great has been my satisfaction to mark the advancement
made in this branch of the tuition, chiefly through the
strenuous efforts of the succession of able science masters
with whom I collaborated.
    One of the most agreeable of the occasional interludes
in the whirl of this summer, was that of the celebration of
the tercentenary of Trinity College, Dublin, on 5th July.
My frequent visits to Ireland had made this venerable
institution more and more dear to me, not only as a centre
of intellectual life, but as a haven of rest and friendly
intercourse in the midst of all the political turmoil of
Ireland.     I gladly availed myself of the invitation to
attend the festival.     The proceedings were arranged
with admirable forethought and skill, and I found in later
years the advantage of the lesson which they furnished
in the methods whereby such gatherings may be most
efficiently conducted.     I learnt that this perfection of
arrangement    was  mainly due to Dr. Daniel John Cunning
ham, the Professor of Anatomy, who afterwards succeeded
 Sir William Turner in the corresponding chair in Edin
burgh University.       One of the preliminary parts of the
festival was a march in procession from the College to a
service in St. Patrick's Cathedral.    The route lay partly
through a rather squalid thoroughfare, where the long
array of bright robes and decorations attracted a motley
 populace.    Just in front of me on the march, the Presi
dent of the Royal College of Physicians of England had
somehow strayed from his row in the ranks, and was
marching along by himself in his gorgeous gown of black
silk and gold lace, bowing to the cheering spectators on
either side.    As we passed a group of bareheaded women

  BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT EDINBURGH                          253
at a doorway, I heard one     of them exclaim, as she pointed
                               " And who
to the doctor's splendour,                  says that Oirland's
                      "
a  poor counthry ?
    The hood of the Doctor of Science of Trinity College
has a facing of green silk, and some of the processionists
were discussing what this tint of green should be called.
John Evans, Treasurer of the Royal Society, overhearing
the question propounded, immediately interposed with
                    '
the remark that        it must be sage-green."     His wit was
always ready and never malevolent.         A few weeks after
wards, as one of the recipients of the degree, I received a
gift of the hood with a friendly note from Professor Samuel
Haughton, one of the wittiest Irishmen of his day.            It
was one of the amusements of Dublin society to listen to
his speeches at the breakfasts in the Zoological Garden.
They were among the drollest discursive displays to
which I have ever listened, and their effect was heightened
by his strong Irish brogue.       If one told him a humorous
anecdote    in London, he would chuckle a little and
          "
remark,      Faith, that will be a good story by the time I
get  back  to  Dublin."
    The British Association for the Advancement of Science
met this year in Edinburgh from 3rd to 10th August.
The presidentship of this great assembly was not a post
to which I had ever aspired, and nobody could have been
more surprised than I was when the Council nominated
me to fill it.   To return to my native city at the head of
this great scientific gathering, after the passing of an
interval of thirty-seven years since, as a lad, I had for the
first time attended one of its meetings, could not but be
a source of gratification.      Not without a little difficulty
my wife was persuaded to accompany me, for she shrank
from publicity.       But once back in Edinburgh, heartily
welcomed by her old friends and acquaintances, and much
made of everywhere, she found to her surprise that she
really enjoyed the whole meeting from beginning to end.
We were guests of the Principal of the University, Sir
William Muir, the eminent Indian official, Arabic
scholar, biographer of Mahomet, and historian of the

 254     PRESIDENT OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION
 Caliphate.    A few notable foreigners came to Edinburgh
 on this occasion, including Helmholz, Arrhenius, Wiede
 mann, Ostwald, Goebel, the Prince of Monaco, and
 Baron F. von Richthofen with his charming wife.
     For the subject of the Presidential Address I chose the
 centenary of the publication at Edinburgh of James
                              "                         "
 Hutton's epoch-making          Theory of the Earth —an
 event that seemed to me to be fidy celebrated by a meeting
 of the British Association in Edinburgh.       Sketching the
 salient features of Hutton's teaching, I indicated how
 much had sprung from it in different branches of enquiry.
 The excursion which I led to the interesting rocks on the
 shore at North Berwick and Tantallon Castle revived the
 recollections of my Ladies' Class in the old days, and it
 was actually attended by several of the old pupils.
    The presidentship of the British Association vividly
 revealed to me a feature of public life in this country
 which I had never before sufficiently realised.         Rival
 press-cutting agencies     bombarded    me   for some    days
 with clippings from scores of newspapers and journals
 from John o' Groats to Land's End, containing reports,
 criticisms, biographical sketches, and portraits of the
 President.    Among the papers there came a phrenological
journal with an article extending over two pages of print
 composed of vague generalities.      Their character may be
 inferred from the phrenologist's first sentence — The
                                                        "
 organisation of this gentleman is most favourable for
 almost any useful sphere of life."
    Another new experience came with the year of office
 at the head of the British Association.    Besides attending
 his own Council and committees, the President is called
upon, as a kind of public representative of science, to
 take part in many other meetings.         Never before this
year had so many extraneous demands been made on my
 time and attention.      The meetings in daylight were
 numerous enough, but they were not unfrequently fol
lowed by dinners in the evening.        To one who strongly
disliked tobacco smoke, and shrank from speech-making,
 it was often a true infliction to sit through a long public

                    LORD SALISBURY                        255
dinner.      But on such occasions one has to be guided by
the excellent maxim of noblesse oblige, and to go patiendy
and cheerfully through it all.
    Among the duties that devolve upon the President of
the Association is that of acting as the medium of invita
tion between the Council and the person who is thought
fittest to be the occupant of the chair after the next
meeting.      The Council selected the Marquis of Salisbury,
who was at that time out of office, and it was hoped that he
might be induced to fill a position which his well-known
practical interest in science might make agreeable to him.
His reply to my letter expressed doubt of his fitness on the
ground of his not being a scientific man.        In a second
letter I informed him that it had been the practice of the
Association, from the beginning of its existence, to elect
 from time to time as its President, not a specialist in
science, but a man of affairs who could treat of the broad
 bearings and wide relationships of science ; that it was of
great service, both to the Association as a body and to the
 position of science in the community at large, that we
 should be occasionally presided over by such a man ;
 that the time seemed eminently appropriate for reverting
 to this practice ; and that at Oxford, where the meeting
 in 1894 was to be held, there could not be a more fitting
 President of the Association than the Chancellor of the
 University. The great statesman sent me a prompt
 answer accepting the nomination.
    Towards the end of December 1892 the new Vice-
 President of the Committee of Council on Education,
 Mr. A. H. Dyke Acland, favoured me with a long con
 versation on the subject of the Geological Survey, of which
 by virtue of his office he now had charge.     In the course
 of the interview he asked whether I was satisfied with the
 Annual Reports of Progress of the Geological Survey,
 to which I promptly replied in the negative. These
 Reports had all along been mere bald statements of
 statistics, chiefly numerical, of no special interest to any
  body ; but such was the wish of the authorities by whom
 these Reports were included with those of the other

 256    REPORTS OF GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
 branches of the department in the annual blue-book.
 Mr. Acland, entirely agreeing with me, said that, as he was
 now head of the Department, he would be glad if I told
 him frankly all that I thought should be done.       In reply
 I advised that, besides the necessary statistics, the Report
 should contain a sketch of the more important or interest
 ing work done by the officers of the Survey in the course
 of the year.   He cordially approved of my proposals, and
 authorised me to make a beginning with the Annual
 Report of the year just ending.      Henceforth it was my
 earnest effort to make these Annual Reports a succinct
journal of the progress of the Survey in each of the three
 kingdoms, which should be obtainable by the public in
 separate form, and as early as possible in each year.
 Besides making the work of the Survey more widely
 known, such a publication would have the advantage of,
 at least in some measure, removing or lessening an old
 grievance.    The observations and discoveries made by
 the members of the staff in the course of their official duty
were obviously the property of the State, at whose expense
 the work of observing and discovering is conducted.         It
was against the rules, therefore, for any officer to publish,
without permission, any of his Survey work.         The most
 appropriate channel of publicity was naturally the official
 Memoirs of the Survey. But these Memoirs were often
unavoidably delayed until the whole of a sheet of the map,
or the whole survey of a given district, was completed.
 Many months, or even some years might elapse before
 the proper official channel of publication was ready.      In
these circumstances it had been customary to grant per
mission to publish in some scientific journal, facts of
interest or importance which members of the staff had
discovered, together with the deductions drawn from
them.     It was always my desire that, as far as practicable,
the Survey should have the credit of the first publication
of its discoveries and observations, but I never hesitated
to sanction prompt publication       in an outside journal
when the importance of the subject demanded it.           The
Annual Reports, as now enlarged and published without

       STRATIGRAPHICAL MONOGRAPHS                                 257
 delay, even  if they gave only a summary of the work done,
 would go far to secure the priority which is naturally a
 matter of importance to observers.
    To this year belongs another enterprise introduced
 into the work of the Survey — the preparation of mono
graphs descriptive of each great division of the Geo
 logical Record.      From my earliest efforts among the
 Liassic deposits of Skye, I had found the want of such
 compendious works of reference.1               The Survey in its
 maps, memoirs, collections, and manuscript notes had
accumulated a vast amount of material which, combined
 with full reference to the work of previous observers,
might be used in the preparation of a series of most useful
volumes.      The Jurassic rocks of Yorkshire, which in
many respects differ from their equivalents in the rest
of the country, had just been completely surveyed.
 Instead of issuing the results of this mapping in a series
of local memoirs, as had been the practice, we gathered all
the material into one volume, which should be the first of a
series descriptive of the Jurassic rocks of England.             This
first instalment, devoted to Yorkshire, and prepared by
C. Fox Strangways, was issued in May this year as a
handsome octavo volume of 550 pages, well illustrated,
and accompanied by a thinner volume composed of
elaborate tables of fossils and a copious bibliography.
This series of volumes was continued by my colleague,
Horace B. Woodward, with characteristic painstaking
industry and accuracy, and with all the editorial help that
could be given by me.        The whole series was ultimately
completed in five volumes, forming a compendious
account of each subdivision of the Jurassic system of
formations in the length and breadth of England.
    Among the private dinners, which the return to resi
dence in London now permitted me to attend more
frequently, there was one which I shall ever vividly
remember.       It was given at his own house by a well-
known     Member of Parliament whose friendship I
enjoyed, and who on this occasion invited me to meet
           1
             So had Hugh Miller :   seejhis letter, ante, p. 58.
    A.G.                          R

258         MR. GLADSTONE AT DINNER
Mr.    and Mrs. Gladstone on 19th April, 1893.                I was
placed near the Prime Minister, who sat at the head of the
table beside the hostess.        It was thus possible to watch
the great politician, and hear every word he said.               He
was in excellent spirits, and discoursed volubly on all
manner of subjects. The question of bishoprics having
arisen in the course of conversation, he affirmed that he
had never proposed to the Queen the name of a man who
had asked for the office.        The subject of the Waverley
Novels, started by him, led to the mention of various
preferences, but he maintained the pre-eminence of Old
Mortality.    When the dessert was served he helped him
self to a Tangerine orange, and stripping off the skin,
which he crushed in his hand and then held to his nose, he
announced with emphasis that in his opinion it was the
most delicious perfume in the world.          After the wine had
passed round he introduced, to the obvious surprise of his
listeners, the subject of castor-oil.       He enlarged on its
qualities, and  wound   up by assuring    us that it was good for
man and beast.       I remarked that it certainly was good
for beast, as had been proved a day or two before at the
Zoological Gardens.         He at once enquired what that
occasion was.       I replied that Her Majesty had been
presented with an ostrich, but not knowing how to feed
it she sent it to the Zoological Gardens, where it began to
pick up and swallow straw, gravel, nails, and all sorts of
rubbish, and grew so ill that they administered seven
                                                         "
ounces of castor-oil ; and it recovered.                   Indeed,"
exclaimed the Premier,
                            "
                               and how did they get it down ?
                                                                   "
I answered that I had not heard details of the treatment.
"                                           "
   Ah, well," he said in a little while,       I'll tell you how I
get  it down."     Then    taking up   an  empty wine-glass, he
                                              " First, I
proceeded with great gravity to say :                       put in a
couche of water
                  "
                     (pausing a moment to allow us to com
                           "                                       "
prehend the action),          then I pour in the castor oil
(with another pause
                  "
                         as he glanced round to see that we
followed him),       and lastly I put another couche of water
on the top," smacking his lips with a kind of satisfaction,
as he set down the wine-glass again.          I then ventured to

      150th   ANNIVERSARY OF R.                 S.  CLUB      259
interpose by asking how he got the upper layer of water to
remain above the much lighter oil.           He at once saw the
                                                   "
dilemma, and with great readiness replied            Ah, I admit,
it requires to be done with great caution."
    Next day, at the Royal Society, I told this anecdote to
the two secretaries, Lord Rayleigh and Michael Foster,
when Lord Kelvin, then President, who was writing a
 note at a side table, turned round to ask what was the
joke at which they were laughing.            I had to repeat the
story to him.        The great physicist, who had at this time
 become an active politician in opposition to Home Rule for
                                          "
 Ireland, emphatically exclaimed,           Well, well, the man's
 physics  are  as  bad  as his  politics."
    Another interesting dinner was that of the Royal
 Society Club to commemorate the 150th anniversary of
 the Club's foundation.         To give a special character to
 this festival it was resolved that the price of the dinner
 should be one shilling and sixpence, which was the cost in
 the Club's earliest years, and that the menu should be as
 nearly as possible the same as that of 24th March, 1747,
              "               "
 the oldest      bill of fare    that has been preserved in the
 Club's   records.      The company numbered sixty-seven,
                                                   "
 and the quaint menu ran as follows :                Cod's Head,
 Smelts, Calve's Head, Pidgeon Pye, Bacon and Greens,
 Fillet of Veal, Chine of Pork, Haunch of Venison [sent by
 Sir Andrew Noble], Plum Pudding, Apple Custard, Butter
                "
 and Cheese — a most fleshly banquet to modern taste I
    The amount of leisure available to me at this time for
 private literary work had become much reduced.             In the
 course of the year, however, I completed and published
 a third edition of the Text-book of Geology ; gave an address
 on the work and methods of the Geological Survey to the
 Federated Institution of Mining Engineers ; contributed
 a paper on the Precambrian Rocks of the British Isles to
 Professor Chamberlin's Journal of Geology ; and supplied
                  "
 an article on       Landscape and the Imagination "1 to the
 Fortnightly Review.        The preparation of the biography
  of my old companion and chief, Sir Andrew C. Ramsay,
                1
                  Reprinted in my Landscape in History.

 260      AN ANNUAL CRUISE PROPOSED
commenced at the beginning of this year, filled many
spare moments of my time.         It was completed and pub
lished towards the end of 1894.
    The pressure of extraneous work, however, now began
to lessen.     The year 1894 released me from a number
of duties which, though in themselves for the most
part pleasurable, necessarily demanded much time and
thought.      Thus the four years' tenure of the Foreign
Secretaryship of the Royal Society had terminated, like
wise the Presidentship of the Geological Society and of
the British Association, as well as the Royal Commission
on Water Supply and the Departmental Committee on
the Ordnance Survey.         After clearing off all arrears of
official work at Jermyn Street I was able to devote more
time to the field-work that required attention.        Various
questions   had  arisen as to the mapping   of portions of the
southern counties from Hampshire to the west of Corn
wall, and others had occurred in Leicestershire and
Derbyshire.      Ireland needed careful consideration, not
only   in the  ground that was in course of being mapped,
but in areas of which the maps had been completed, but
where the explanatory memoirs remained to be written.
In Scotland the inspection comprised a greater extent of
country than ever before, for, in addition to the work in the
Highlands, it had been found necessary to re-examine
some portions of the Southern Uplands for the purpose of
the descriptive memoir of that region.
   "
      Three weeks without an address, a letter or a tele
gram, a comfortable berth in a roomy steam-yacht, some
pleasant companions, and a cruise wherever you would
like to go among the Western Isles." Such was the
pleasant prospect which had been held out to me for two
or three years ; but which, owing to official and other ties,
it had not been possible to accept.       The invitation came
from Henry Evans, banker in Derby, who having a lease
of the deer forest of the island of Jura, had there built him
self a commodious house and laid out charming grounds
commanding a fine sea view.         My inclusion among his
yachting comrades was suggested to him by my friend,

   PROFESSOR NEWTON AS YACHTSMAN                          261
Alfred Newton, Professor of Zoology in the University of
 Cambridge, who had long been an intimate associate of
Evans, and had accompanied him for some years in his
summer cruises.     At last in 1894 it was found possible
to take advantage of the privilege.       Henry Evans was
not only a good man of business, but had literary tastes,
and, above all, the instincts and enthusiasm of a true
naturalist.   His special affection for birds and his wide
knowledge     of them led him to protect them by every
means in his power, so that under his fostering care Jura
became a sanctuary for bird-life.     He was a keen sports
man and good shot.       Some years before my first visit to
his island home, the contents of a friend's rifle were
accidentally discharged into one of his legs, which had to
be amputated.      But though disabled from climbing the
steep   and rough quartzite mountains, he continued to be
as keen a deer-stalker as ever, mounted on his stout hill-
pony.
                        "                     "
    Alfred Newton, or Alfred the Great as Evans used
playfully to style him, was an enthusiastic naturalist,
especially devoted to the study of birds.      His wide range
of knowledge, his well-stored and accurate memory, his
fund of reminiscence and anecdote, and his delightful
sense of humour made him a most pleasing companion.
His annual cruise with Evans was looked forward to by
him with almost boyish exuberance, and he afterwards
loved to recall its various incidents.    Nowhere could he
be seen more completely in his element than on board of
his friend's commodious 250 ton steam-yacht the Aster.
Clad in the light-grey tweed suit that did duty on these
occasions, but without topcoat or waterproof, he would
sit for hours on some exposed part of the vessel, smoking
innumerable pipes and watching for every variety of sea-
fowl that might show itself either in the air or on the water.
In the course of a few days sun, wind, rain and salt spray
told on his complexion, which became
                                          "
                                             ruddier than the
cherry." The sharpness of his eyesight in the detection
of birds on the wing, even when he had reached the age of
seventy years, was always a wonder to his companions.

 a62      GEOLOGISING IN THE " ASTER "
     Our host reckoned on almost always getting good
 cruising weather about the longest day.              The Professor
and   I  therefore travelled north together, and appeared in
Jura    before   the day of the summer solstice.            During a
succession of years these annual arrangements held good,
and each cruise lasted about three weeks. The Aster was
fit to go anywhere on the open sea, and yet of such light
draught as to be able to enter many little inlets, where she
could anchor for the night.         We thus became acquainted
with the whole north-west coast of Scotland, including
the Orkney and Shetland Islands, and on two occasions
extended our cruise to the furthest northerly headland of
the Faroe archipelago — Occidentis ad ultimum sinum.                  I
was thus able to see the geology of the islands with
remarkable ease, the vessel being piloted to every cliff
that I wished to observe close at hand or to examine from
a small boat.1
    The International Geological Congress met in Sep
tember 1894 at Zurich.           I read a paper in which atten
tion was called to the remarkable segregation of minerals
in bands in the Skye gabbros of Tertiary age, to the
occasional curvature and plication of these bands, and to
the possible light thrown by them on the origin of the
more ancient gneisses.          When the day came for the
reading of my communication, I was entreated by several
German members not to give it in French.                 They would
rather have it in English or German.              This was not the
only sign of the German jealousy of France, even among
students of science.        But I had written my paper in
French, which was the official language of the Congress,
and I read it in that language, to the manifest content
ment of the French and Swiss members.                      I am not
sure, however, that some of my German associates quite
forgave me.
    One of the closing incidents of this year was a dinner
   1
     Many references to the places visited in our cruises will be found
in my Scottish Reminiscences. The geological observations among
                                                        "
the Faroe Islands are contained in the paper on           The Tertiary
Basalt-plateaux of North-Western Europe," Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc,
vol. hi. (1896).

     A NIGHT ON THE TOP OF BEN NEVIS                      263
given by Messrs. Macmillan & Company in honour of
Norman Lockyer, and in celebration of the issue of the
fiftieth volume of the weekly journal, Nature, of which he
 had been editor from the beginning.        As a contributor
to the first number of this most useful publication, and to
many subsequent numbers, I received an invitation, and
found the company to comprise the leaders in almost every
branch of science.      Huxley, who was in excellent form,
proposed    the toast of the evening.
    In 1895 tne inspecting duties of the Geological Survey
took up altogether ten weeks in the field between the
beginning of March and the end of October.        In England
the most notable feature of the field-work was the detailed
survey of the Isle of Man by Mr. G. W. Lamplugh.
This accomplished geologist, after having made some able
researches in Yorkshire, had recently been appointed to a
place in the Geological Survey.       The Manx problems
were many and difficult ; but he successfully grappled
with them, and in the course of a few years completed the
investigation of the whole island.     In Ireland the inspec
tion involved a renewed examination of some of the com
plicated ground in the west of the counties of Mayo and
Galway.      In Scotland the areas traversed lay in the west
of Ross-shire, Inverness-shire and Argyle on the one side,
and among the uplands of Galloway on the other.
    While engaged in the area between Fort William and
the West Coast I took the opportunity to climb Ben Nevis
and to spend the night of 14th June at the Observatory on
the top of the mountain, which is 4406 feet above sea-
level, the highest elevation in the British Isles.    At the
summit I found the observer then       in charge, Dr. W. S.
Bruce of Antarctic fame, stretched on a lately-fallen sheet
of snow, carefully collecting the numerous and varied
forms of insect-life which, borne upward by warm air
currents from lower levels, were chilled by the cold
surface on which they had come to rest.
    As the weather was clear and dry, the whole vast
panorama of mountains, glens, rivers, lakes and the sea
was visible to its utmost limits — a scene not often so fully

  264           THE LITERARY SOCIETY
 displayed to the chance visitor, and, when thus beheld,
 never to be forgotten.        As evening wore on, the whole
 range of the Outer Hebrides stood out against the after
 glow of the western sky.        It was now nearly the longest
 day.     In this northern clime, when the sky remains
 unclouded, there is hardly any night at midsummer.         On
 this occasion the stars at midnight shone with a radiance
 seldom seen in our misty lowlands, and the air became
 piercingly cold.       Next morning a group of icicles hung
 from the roof above my window, and a wonderful change
 had supervened upon the landscape.           Only the higher
 hill-tops  rose  up  into the sunlight.  All the region below
 them was shrouded under a vast sea of white mist.            It
 was a rare piece of good fortune to look on such a phantom
 representation of how the Highlands would appear as a
 great archipelago, during a time of serious submergence.
 I had long recognised that they are probably the remnant
of an ancient tableland which was planed down below
sea-level by the various agents of denudation, and that on
this platform, when subsequently upraised into land, the
glens and straths have been carved out by these same
 eroding agencies.       The undulating surface of the wide
 sea of mist might be taken to represent the general surface
of that tableland. But the mist vanished as the sun rose
higher in the sky, and revealed once more the familiar
landscape.       I descended again to the lower earth after an
experience at the summit which would ever remain vivid
in memory.
    In this year I was elected into the Literary Society, and,
until I ceased to reside in London, its monthly dinners
were a source of great pleasure. The Society was founded
in the first decade of last century as an association of men
of letters in the widest sense of the term, for the members
included men of note in the Church, in science, in law, in
art, in medicine, in politics, and in public life, but all with
more or less of literary tastes ; and this original character
it still maintains.      Among its first members probably
the most illustrious was William Wordsworth, while
Walter Scott was elected into its honorary list. The

             MARTIN, BRADLEY, AINGER                     265
 number of members was limited to forty.          They dined
 together at an hotel once in each month from January to
 July and in -November and December. Among those
 most frequently present about the time I joined were Sir
 Spencer Walpole (President), Sidnev Colvin (Secretary),
 Dean Bradley, W. E. H. Lecky, Alfred C. Lyall, Theo
 dore Martin, E. H. Pember, Canon Ainger, D. Mac
 kenzie Wallace, Henry S. Cunningham, Austin Dobson,
 Hon. Arthur D. Elliot, R. Henn Collins, and W. J.
 Courthope.     Sir Theodore Martin and I often sat next
 each other, and a warm friendship was soon formed be
 tween us.    From time to time he told me many incidents
 of his early life in Scotland, his association with W. E.
 Aytoun, and his own literary career.    With Dean Bradley
 also I had many pleasant talks.      He had a remarkably
 retentive memory, had seen many notable people, and
 could graphically tell his recollections of them.     When
 our party broke up I used often to escort him over the
 street crossings that lay between our dining place (which
 for some years was the Bristol Hotel) and St. James's Park.
 He would never let me cross the Park with him, as he
 said there was no longer any danger, and he could easily
 find his way back to the deanery in Westminster.
 Charming too were the long interviews with Ainger —
a delightful commingling of seriousness with humour and
wit.    He loved a good anecdote, and when he met me
his first question often was
                               " What is the last
                                                   good story
                    "
from the north ?        My constant journeyings over all
 parts of Scotland gave opportunities of picking up anec
dotes and incidents which amused him.         For a time one
was puzzled to account for their appearance shortly after
wards in the pages of Punch, with the accompaniment of
illustrations by Du Maurier, until I found that the Canon
and the artist lived as neighbours at Hampstead.
    The yachting cruise in 1895 began with a preliminary
circumnavigation of the island of Jura.         I had often
heard of the raised beaches on the west side of the island,
but had never visited them, and was quite unprepared for
the number, freshness, and bareness of their successive

266         RAISED BEACHES OF JURA
terraces.   They     are  certainly the most remarkable
example of this geological feature in the British Isles.
Four or five flat-topped banks or terraces, some of them
many acres in extent, may be traced one above another
up to the highest which, on landing, we measured and
found to be no feet above high water-mark.             Each of
them is formed of coarse water-worn shingle of white
quartzite.    The stones, all well rounded, lie closely
packed, with hardly any intermingled            clay, sand or
gravel to bind them together.        The absence of any com
pacting material,    and the  sterile  nature of the quartzite,
have checked the growth of vegetation on these platforms.
Consequently the bare white terraces look as fresh as if
the waves had been rolling their materials only a few
weeks ago.     It is hard to believe that the oldest of these
terraces may perhaps be more ancient than the infancy of
mankind in Britain.      In our walk along the shore I was
delighted   to  find  beautifully ripple-marked surfaces in
the hard quartzite on which were many well-preserved
worm-burrows, like those of the quartzite of the north
west  Highlands.
    On the way to St. Kilda the yacht encountered exten
sive banks   of summer fog      so dense that the prow could
not be seen from the stern.      It was late before we dropped
anchor in the only available anchorage in this remote
group of islands.      On account of the uncertainty of the
weather, and the necessity of leaving the place if the wind
should blow hard into our little natural harbour, I next
day made a rapid traverse of the main island, to observe
its geological structure and take samples of its constituent
rocks.    The most wonderful sight at St Kilda is certainly
the amazing abundance and variety of its bird life.      There
are probably more gannets here than in all the rest of the
British Isles put together. It was a wonderful sight to
watch the different companies of these birds, each con
sisting of hundreds of individuals, as they kept wheeling
round in wide circles and plunging in rapid succession
into the sea, each bird like a white shooting star, rushing
down into the deep-blue water and sending up a spout of

  BIRD-LIFE AND WHALES AT ST. KILDA                          267
white  spray.    There may have been some thousands,
plunging and splashing, within sight at a time. Besides
these larger birds aloft, innumerable companies of smaller
fowl flew at lower levels — kittiwakes, gulls, fulmars,
cormorants, puffins, and many more.             The air, to use
Milton's fine line, seemed to be
             Brushed with the hiss of rustling wings.
   While the yacht's engines were going dead slow, and
we were watching this scene of bird movement, three
whales appeared, two together and one behind, puffing
out their bursts of spray and showing their black backs
as they quietly moved through the area where the gannets
were diving ; one could speculate as to what would happen
should one of them be harpooned by one of the strong
beaks that were rushing headlong into the water all around
them.    Whales are probably more plentiful in our Atlan
tic waters than is commonly supposed.            In these cruises
in the Aster we continually met with them.           This feature
of our seas would seem       to  have   attracted   the notice of
                                                "
early navigators.    Horace alludes to the         ocean teeming
with monsters (beluosus oceanus) that roars around
distant Britain."     The number of them might lead to
exaggeration of their size. Juvenal assigns a notable
bulk to the British whale. It was doubtless with these
old legends in his mind that Milton pictured the body of
Lycidas, swept by the whelming tide beyond the stormy
                             "
Hebrides, and visiting          the bottom of the monstrous
world."    It was a sad descent from ancient poetry to
modern prose when, in the course of our cruises among
the Hebrides, we discovered that one or two Scandinavian
companies had established whaling stations at various
places among the islands, and were doing their best to
                   "
exterminate the      monsters."     At these stations carcases
of the animals, occasionally eight or nine together, could
be seen in all stages of decomposition, and filling the air
for miles around with the most disgusting stench.
   The voyage to the Faroe Isles is often hampered in
summer by sea-fog, and we came in for our share of this

268      FAROE CONTRASTED WITH HEBRIDES
impediment.         Bat in successive visits we saw the whole
archipelago in detail up to the furthest northern headland,
often landing at the settlements and villages and obtaining
a close view of every sea cliff which presented points of
special interest.1       The Faroe community was evidently
well-to-do and industrious.          The great industry being
fishing, one of the chief employments of the villagers
consists in looking after the drying of the fish on slopes
of rough causeway, and in being ready to spread tar
paulins over them should rain threaten to fall.           When the
drying process is completed the fish are piled up into heaps
ready for export.        Everybody seemed busy and cheerful.
Their cottages, neat and trim, with painted fronts and
white-curtained windows, present a singular contrast to the
wretched cabins amidst the filth and stench of the fishing
stations in the Hebrides, such as Castle Bay.             One tried
to find a reason for this amazing contrast.            Why should
the Celtic population be content to remain in squalor,
dirt and laziness, while the Norse communities live in
such cleanliness, comfort and activity ? There may be
something in difference of race, but at least one cause of
the contrast probably arises from the fact that the herring
industry, in the Hebrides, is in the hands of men from the
east side of Scotland who come to these western islands
only for the season of the fishing.          They try to make as
much money as they can, and to spend as little as possible
on the accommodation of the natives, whom they employ
in the processes of the curing.         At the end of the season
they return     to  the  mainland and leave the resident com
munity     to  clear  away the mess — a task not congenial to
the Celtic temperament.            Among the Faroes, on the
other hand, the cod fishing is largely carried on by
the native population, which is inherently cleanly and
industrious, and retains a large share in the profits of
the industry.
     In this same year (1895) I had occasion to cross to the
Continent three times.          They were brief visits, but they
   1  The geological observations made in these cruises are described
in Ancient Volcanoes of Great Britain, vol. ii.

 GOLDSMITH ON THE FOLK OF FRANCE                               269
helped further to cement friendships in France.          Professor
Fouqué     at  his  laboratory    most  obligingly    showed    me
all his latest material, in the admirable researches he was
conducting in the elucidation of the microscopic structure
of rocks. He then mentioned that he had acquired the
apparatus and results of the experiments made at the close
of the eighteenth century by Sir James Hall on the fusion
of rocks. These interesting materials could not have
fallen into more appreciative hands, though one could
have wished that they had been retained in Scotland, as
a valuable relic of the founder of experimental geology.
In my veneration for this original investigator I had pro
posed many years before to search for materials from which
to prepare a biographical account of him, and I consulted
Principal J. D. Forbes, who then told me that he had
formed the same intention, but had not yet been able to
obtain the necessary documents.           Of course I dropped
my project ;     but  Forbes    passed away, and the memoir
remains unwritten.        In justice to Hall and to Scottish
science, some attempt should still be made to supply this
gap in geological literature.
    During this brief visit to France I spent some days in
Auvergne for the purpose of again studying certain
volcanic features of that region, with a view to ascertain
whether some of their details would throw light upon
certain problems presented by the Tertiary volcanic area
of north-western Europe. The places which I specially
wished to see lay rather out of the way, and led me into
pleasant intercourse with the peasantry of the remoter
uplands.      In the course of my many sojourns in France
how often has Goldsmith's graphic couplet been recalled
by the manners and ways of the simple country folk !
         They please, are pleased, they give to get esteem,
         Till, seeming blest, they grow to what they seem.
    The second short sojourn on the Continent came at the
end of summer, when I took my daughters, Elsie and
Gabrielle, from their school at Eastbourne to join the rest
of the family who had been for some time in Switzerland.

27o                 THE INSTITUT DE FRANCE
 Before leaving them I had time to climb with them from
 the Rhone valley to Finhaut, to gather gentians at the
 Col de Balme, and to take them up to Zermatt and the
 Gornergrat, that they might have a glimpse of the glacier
 world, and the giant sentinels that guard           from Monte
                                                   it,
 Rosa to the Matterhorn.
     The third traverse of the Strait of Dover involved an
.absence of only six days.      It  was occasioned by the cele
 bration of the centenary of the Institut de France, to
 which, as one of the Correspondents,     I   received an invita
 tion.    The fetes, occupying from the 23rd to the 26th of
 October, were characteristically French and thoroughly
 enjoyable.      According to the official programme the
 proceedings were to begin with reception at the rooms of
                                      a
 the Institut at half past two o'clock on the Wednesday.
 But among the various papers awaiting each foreign guest
 there was, at least in my packet, one requesting his pres
 ence at religious service in the church of St. Germain des
               a
 Pres at 10 o'clock.      It   was
                                 a    Mass for the repose of the
 souls of all the members who had died since the foundation
 of the Institut. The outstanding feature of this function
 was the presence of Monseigneur Perraud, Bishop of
 Autun, who presided and gave an address of remarkable
 eloquence, closing with touching reference to the recent
                            a
 death of Pasteur.        Turning to the audience, he added,
 " Your
           presence here, gentlemen, only confirms my words.
It   is good to see the flower of intellect affirming so well
 that     it  impossible to drive out the idea of religion."
               is
 The learned prelate concluded the ceremony              by   an
 nouncing to his fellow-members of the Institut that the
 Sovereign Pontiff could not let the centenary pass without
 sending his benediction to the Five Academies, which the
 Bishop, with the mitre on his head, now pronounced.
  It    was    strange surprise to find out
                   a                          inthe course of the
 day   that the  ecclesiastics had stolen a march   on the men of
 literature, science and art,    by   issuing their invitation to
 this morning service.         One well-known member of the
 Academy      of  Sciences   was furiously angry, not only that
 the service should have been held, but that the note of

               M. RAYMOND POINCARE                                271
invitation to it bore in large letters at the top of the page,
and in the proper official type — Institut de France,
as if it had been actually issued as part of the official
programme.
   The opening reception at the Palais de l'lnstitut
brought together a somewhat confused crowd, in which,
however, people could move about and greet friends and
acquaintances.      As soon as dear old Daubrée caught
sight of me he hurried forward, kissed me in his usual
fashion, and presented me to M. Ambroise Thomas,
then the President of the Institut.           In the evening there
was a more formal reception, with music and acting, at
the Ministry of Public Instruction, where M. Raymond
Poincaré, the head of that Department, received us.              This
eminent man, then in his thirty-fifth year, and full of
capacity and energy, was the most prominent and effective
of all the Ministers who attended the centenary festival.
Nothing could exceed his courteous attention to the
foreign members.        Always alert and ready, he could make
an excellent impromptu speech and fire it off with great
animation.      It was no surprise to those who watched him
at this time, that in later years he should be chosen Presi
dent of the French Republic — an office which during the
strain of the Great War he filled with dignity, tact and
success.1
   On the morning of Thursday an interesting ceremony,
not inserted in the original programme, took place in
the conservatory of the Elysée, where M. Felix Faure,
President of the Republic, received the officials of the
Bureau of the Institut and the Foreign Associates and
Correspondents,       to the      number of fifty-five.          The
President passed round us as we stood, courteously
shaking hands with each, and stopping to say a word or
two, when he recognised the name and had heard of the
work of the man whom he was addressing                    The whole
ceremony lasted only half an hour.
  1 Since this sentence was written his
                                          vigour and patriotism have
continued to place him in the forefront of his fellow countrymen, and
he has now (1924) been Prime Minister for several years.

 272         ORATION BY JULES SIMON
    The central function of the Celebration took place in the
afternoon of the same day, when a public assembly of
the whole Institut was held in the great amphitheatre of
the Sorbonne.       In this noble chamber the first object
to arrest the eye was the vast wall-painting by Puvis de
Chavannes behind the far platform.       In front of this great
work of art sat the President of the Republic in the Chair,
with the Ministers on the left and the ambassadors on the
right, their secretaries and attachés crowded behind, all
ablaze in uniforms, orders, and decorations.      In the body
of the amphitheatre the members of the Institut were
placed immediately in front of the platform.           Behind
them professors, judges, lawyers, teachers         and many
more, in their various robes and hats         —  a wonderful
kaleidoscope of colour.      There were some   ladies  present
and I was glad to be able to find a place for my daughter
Lucy, then resident in Paris as a student of art in the
studio of M. Courtois.
   The chief oration was given by the illustrious statesman,
philosopher and man of letters, Jules Simon, then in his
eightieth year.     He discoursed with great eloquence on
the history    of the Institut, and the influence of its five
Academies on the progress of literature, philosophy,
science and art.      He closed his address with an impas
sioned peroration, in which he told us that we had here
before our eyes the Congress of Peace, the Congress
wherein truth is loved for its own sake, whatsoever may be
the land from which it comes ; the country of eternal
truth and of eternal beauty is likewise the country of
peace.     Then, turning to the Foreign Associates and
Correspondents, he declared that not only would we
carry thence a remembrance of the warm sympathies with
which we had been welcomed, but that both we and our
French hosts would derive from this fraternal concourse
a redoubled love of peace, of the sciences whereby peace
is fertilised, and of the arts by which it is embellished.
We would all continue at work, each in his own chosen
corner of the universal workshop, for the prosperity of the
house, that is to say, for the welfare of humanity.       Less

  INTERLUDES OF MUSIC AND DRAMA                         "
                                                          273
than twenty years after this eloquent forecast, the country
in which it was spoken became the theatre of the greatest
war in the whole history of man.
   With characteristic tact and good taste interludes of
music were introduced to relieve the attention which the
addresses demanded.       When Jules Simon sat down, the
orchestra played a part of the Mors et Vita of Gounod,
who had been a member of the section of music in the
Académie des Beaux Arts.         At the end of this most
impressive composition       M. Poincaré addressed the
audience.     Sketching with graphic power the first sitting
of the Institut, which lasted four hours, he traced the part
which the organisation, then set on foot, had since played
in the intellectual progress of France.   As a literary effort
the address was remarkably fine, and it was pronounced
with the grace and fire of an accomplished orator.
   Of course no celebration of the kind is considered to be
complete without a banquet.        The evening of the chief
day of the Centenary was accordingly devoted to a sump
tuous repast in the Hotel Continental with much splen
dour and many speeches.
   On Friday morning another little ceremony, not on the
printed programme, took place in the strip of garden on
the south side of the Louvre, for the purpose of unveiling
the statue of Meissonier.        There were speeches, of
course, but these were short, the chief of them being made
by the indefatigable Minister of Public Instruction, who,
again to the fore, summed up in terse and eloquent words
the characteristics of Meissonier's art.    The last speaker
was M. Mounet-Sully, who recited with great effect
some verses written for the occasion.       The whole pro
ceedings   took  up just one hour.
   In the afternoon of the same day a delightful and most
characteristically French entertainment was given at the
Theatre Francais, where scenes from Corneille's Cid
and Moliere's Femmes Savantes and Ecole des Femmes
were rendered with a finished perfection nowhere else
to be found.     The reception in the evening at the Elysee
brought the formal functions in Paris to a close.         The
    A,G.                      s

274    VISIT TO CHATEAU OF CHANTILLY
President again    shook hands with the members of the
Institut, and seemed glad to welcome them. The French
instinct for organizing a series of festivities was never
more happily displayed.
   Saturday was made a kind of holiday after all the for
malities that preceded    it,and was given up to visit to the
                                                  a
Chateau de Chantilly. This noble mansion belonged to
the Duc d'Aumale, fourth son of King Louis Philippe.
He had accumulated in       it many priceless treasures of art
which he desired to leave to the State as national posses
                                             a
sion.    Looking around for the body or institution that
would be most likely to endure amidst the political
vicissitudes through which France might yet have to pass,
and most able to administer the gift for the public benefit,
he made choice of the Institut de France as offering the
best prospect of continuance and ability.          He was now
residing in the Chateau, and     it  was on his invitation that
the members of the Institut came to visit the princely
abode of which in the future they were to be custodians.
Still suffering from  a   recent attack of gout, the Duc sat
in the centre of the great hall, wrapped in black velvet,
with  a  cap on his head, looking the very type of    a   grand
seigneur   of the olden  time.    With   easy vivacity he shook
hands with the foreigners as they were successively pre
sented, altering his language according to that of the
country of the visitor, and making appropriate little
speeches with consummate grace and charm.             As drew
                                                      I
near  I  noticed that his fingers were knotted with chalk-
stones as large as walnuts, memorials of what he must
have endured from his malady.          In excellent English he
welcomed me to France.         He was himself the impressive
centre   of the whole   mansion    and its many treasures.   I
vividly retain in my memory the impression of this striking
scene — kind of living relic of the ancien regime.
          a                                                 The
Duc was then in his seventy-fourth year.           He died two
years  afterwards  from   shock  caused by   the tragic death of
his niece, the Duchesse d'Alencon, at the conflagration of
a charitable bazaar in Paris.
   My last evening in       la ville lumiire was spent at the

         THE COMTE DE FRANQUEVILLE                         275
Comte      de Franqueville's   interesting old mansion of
Muette, almost surrounded with the houses and streets
of modern and growing Paris.          My acquaintance with
this charming Frenchman, now begun, became more
intimate as years passed.     He often visited England with
the Comtesse and his family, and on these occasions was
a frequent inmate of the Athenaeum.          In celebration of
the Centenary, he had just published two sumptuous
quarto volumes, in which he gave a valuable detailed
account of the first century of the Institut.
    While the true man of science finds that the successful
prosecution of his researches is its own highest reward, he
cannot but be gratified and encouraged by the recognition
of his labours on the part of his scientific brethren at home
and abroad.      It was assuredly with no small pleasure that
at the anniversary of the Geological Society in 1895, I
received from my fellow-geologists the Wollaston medal
— the highest award in the Society's gift, and next year
from the Royal Society, one of its Royal Medals.          The
brotherhood of men of science is in no way more marked
than by their generous recognition of the labours of their
fellow-workers in other lands.        For many years past
honorary membership of foreign academies and societies
had been conferred on me, and the number of these
distinctions continued, until in the course of years I found
myself enrolled in most of the more important of these
institutions both in the Old and the New World.         There
is still another mode in which the sympathy of scientific
men is shown.        They take pleasure in sending to each
other copies of their papers and memoirs, which might
otherwise for a time escape notice.         In this way geo
logists  in all parts of the world have  enriched  my library,
and have put me in possession of much material which has
been of the greatest service in the preparation of succes
sive editions of my Text-book.       The academies abroad
usually send their publications to those whom they elect
as foreign correspondents or associates, and these volumes
are numerous and often bulky.          When to these serial
publications, there were added the numerous separate

276     PROGRESS OF SURVEY IN SKYE
memoirs sent by their authors, the whole formed a rapidly
increasing part of one's library, until it became difficult
to find house-room for it all.   It was ultimately desirable
to bestow a large part of it elsewhere.     While filling the
Chair of Geology at Edinburgh, I had begun the formation
of a class library for the use of the students, and I now
relieved my shelves of all the geological literature which
could be spared and sent it to Edinburgh for incorpora
tion in that library.    This practice has since been con
tinued from year to year.
   Owing to a great increase of work at headquarters, the
year 1896 was spent mostly there.         Besides the daily
demands of my own institution, a number of official
questions arose, involving both letters and interviews ;
the public showed an increased desire for information
and guidance in geological matters ; and my correspond
ence had consequently much increased.        The inspection
duty in Scotland had to be restricted to a single visit.
The survey of the Oban district was now in progress, and
the detailed structure of Strath in Skye, and of the islands
of Raasay, Scal pa, and Pabba, was being worked out upon
maps on the scale of six inches to the mile.     It was with
much interest that I returned    to see the  results of more
precise investigation of the ground on which my own
explorations were begun at a time when no reliable maps
were available.   On this visit to Skye I found one of my
colleagues in a small  farmhouse by the sea, with a howling
tempest of wind and rain outside and a jug of milk and
scones inside, quite contented with his homely accommo
dation, looking forward to be joined there in three days
by his wife and children, and except for the multiplicity
of basalt-dykes, which delayed the progress of his
mapping, as cheerful and merry as usual.             Another
member of the staff" was wrestling with the Liassic strata,
which he knew well in England as a regular undisturbed
formation, but which were here cut up in the most com
plicated way by these dykes, thus adding greatly to the
number and complexity of the lines which he had to
trace.   A third colleague had found quarters in one of the

               LORD KELVIN'S JUBILEE                       477
wildest corners of Skye, where, however, the ruggedness
of   the ground and the intricacy of the geology were in
some measure compensated by the existence of a good
                                          "            "
garden, into which, the family at the       big house being
absent, he could be turned loose by the gardener, among
strawberries, raspberries, and gooseberries, to compete in
 the struggle for existence with thrushes and blackbirds.
His luxuries were further increased by unlimited facilities
for ablution, seeing that he could have a plunge in the sea
before breakfast, and on his return at the end of a day of
mountaineering, a natural shower-bath under a waterfall.
    The summer of this year brought with it the jubilee
of Lord Kelvin at Glasgow University, an event which
assembled a notable company of eminent physicists from
all parts of the globe, to do honour to the great philosopher.
For fifty years he had been Professor of Natural Philo
sophy in this University, and had long been looked up to
by the whole world as the most distinguished physicist
of his time. He was now in his seventy-second year,
but still full of mental vigour, and he continued to fill the
chair for three years longer.
    The annual cruise in the Aster this year lay through
Orkney and Shetland.          Though I had already visited
these islands more than once, it was only now, by living
among them, and sailing in and out through their sounds
and voes, that I came to know them well.         As the yacht
was always placed completely at my disposal, I was able
in the course of years, and during repeated cruises, to
become fairly familiar with them from end to end.          We
sailed close under the vast sea-front of Hoy which, from
the warm yellow hue of its component sandstone, seems
always as if lit up by sunshine.     Sometimes we anchored
for the night at the quaint haven of Stromness, or at
Kirkwall, where the fine old Norse Cathedral of St.
Magnus was always visited.         But the Shetlands were
usually   our  chief  cruising ground.     Their wonderfully
abundant bird life was a perpetual delight to our host and
the Professor, while their varied geological structure,
their singular, sometimes almost weird, topographical

278   DEATH OF PRESTWICH AND DAUBREE
features,   and their astounding examples            of marine
denudation were a constant source of interest to me.
    The year 1896 was saddened for me by the death of
some of my most cherished scientific friends.             Joseph
Prestwich had been slowly failing, and was now confined
to his picturesque home at Darent-Hulme, where, though
feeble in body, he retained such vitality of mind as to give
hope that his life might still be further prolonged.       Queen
Victoria had conferred knighthood upon him at the New
Year, and his interest in the outer world was maintained
by the many congratulatory letters sent by his friends,
which his wife read to him.        His eighty-fourth birthday
on 1 2th March brought him such overflowing greetings
from old friends at a distance, and from neighbours and
                                           it,          "
villagers at his own home, as to make          he said,  a   very
happy birthday."       But he continued to sink, and quietly
ceased to breathe on 23rd June.         Prestwich was held in
high respect everywhere       for the  value   of his geological
work, but   it  was his own simple, modest, gentle and
sympathetic nature that so endeared him to all who came
to know him.      From the time when we climbed Vesuvius
together   in 1870,  I  had become more intimate with him,
my affection increasing as the beauty of his character
unfolded itself in our intercourse.      He was certainly one
of the most simple and lovable men        I   have ever known.
His widow asked me to select          a   few books from his
library, which  I  was glad to obtain as  a  personal memorial
of him. A duty which willingly undertook at her request
                         I
was to furnish   a  sketch of his scientific work for insertion
in  the biography of him which she published in 1899.
    Professor Daubree likewise passed away in the same
month of June.       His distinction in  science was combined
with an almost child-like simplicity of character which
gave him an irresistible charm.        From the first time we
met he had taken such kindly interest in me and my work
as to win my devoted regard.          He took my family also
into the circle of his attachment.           When Lucy was
living in   Paris  asa   student   of art  he  was unceasingly
kind  in   his attention to her.     One of the attractions of

          GEOLOGY CHAIR AT OXFORD                         279
Paris to me was his presence there, and since his death
it has never seemed to be quite the same place.
   Another grievous loss came in the death of Alexander
Henry Green, one of my early associates in the Geological
           We used        "        " in the same lodgings in
Survey.               to     chum
London, and grew to be fast friends.       He left the Survey
in 1874 when he was appointed Professor of Geology at
Leeds, but we continued a helpful correspondence, and
met occasionally.    He was one of the men who, from one
cause or another, never quite do themselves justice.        I
regarded   him as  one  of  the most  accomplished geologists
of his day in England, and from the long talks we used to
enjoy in the old Survey years, one looked forward to his
rising into eminence by the introduction of mathematical
methods into the discussion of geological problems.
When he obtained the Oxford Chair of Geology in
 1888 his friends sincerely hoped that the comparative
leisure of the position might give him the opportunity
to do what had been expected of him.           But his health
began to suffer, and he died in August this year at the
age of sixty-four.
   By the death of Professor Green the Chair of Geology
at Oxford again became vacant.         Various applicants for
the post came forward, but the University authorities
were in no hurry to appoint a successor.          Late in the
autumn one of the Board of Electors again urged me to
apply for the Professorship.      I assured him that this was
quite impossible.     Early in December another of the
elective body wrote to me still more strongly pressing
the same proposal, and pointing out that I would be sure
of a Fellowship, which with my Civil Service pension,
would bring the small professorial stipend up to the value
of my income in the Geological Survey, and he added,
" some
         day you will feel the bucketing about from Land's
End to John o' Groats a little severe, and will be glad to
have a pied a terre in Oxford."       But I remained deaf to
these allurements, and advised the electors to choose
Professor Sollas of Dublin, who had just returned from
his coral island expedition.      At the same time I urged

280         JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY
him to send in his application as a candidate, but this for
a time he hesitated to do, owing to the inadequacy of the
emoluments of the Oxford- professorship.             Eventually
he applied and was elected.           The University thereby
obtained     one  of the most  brilliant  geologists of the day.
The financial conditions of the post have since been
improved.        With an augmented income, a growing
attendance at his lectures, and leisure for research and
for the production of fresh contributions to geological
literature, he has become one of the most eminent
leaders in the science to which he has devoted his life.
    During this year a correspondence arose about a pro
posal which was made to me by Dr. D. C. Gilman,
President of the Johns Hopkins University of Baltimore.
In his first letter he wrote : " The widow of the late
Professor George H. Williams, who was Professor of
Geology in this University until his death nearly a year
ago, proposes to maintain a lectureship in this place to
commemorate his name.          It is the desire of my associates,
and of those geologists whom I have consulted, as well as
of Mrs. Williams, that the opening course in this series
should be given by you.        We are sure that your coming
to this country will give a fresh impulse to the studies
which you represent. Among your hearers there will
be not only our own students of geology and the allied
sciences, but also, as we hope, several members of the
 U.S. Geological Survey, and possibly others from a
distance.      The lectures may be delivered at any time
 between the 15th of October and the 1st of May."
    Between the geologists of America and myself there
had long been the friendliest regard.           My first visit to
 the United States laid the foundation of many personal
attachments, and there had arisen a copious and con
 tinuous correspondence between us.           I had therefore a
 strong    desire  to  renew  personal    contact  with the old
 friends, and to make the acquaintance of many more whom
 I knew only by their papers and their letters. Many
 difficulties had to be surmounted before I was at liberty
 to accept the invitation.     The whole journey to America

         "THE FOUNDERS                  OF GEOLOGY"              281
and back had to be comprised within the time of my annual
holiday, as I was unwilling to apply for any extra leave,
seeing that there was the prospect of another long tour
abroad which could only be undertaken by special
authorisation of my official chiefs.        It was at last arranged
that I should appear in Baltimore, and give the first
lecture on 21st April, 1897.
    The greatest gratification which came this year to my
wife and myself was the success of our son Roderick at
Cambridge, where he obtained the Winchester Reading
Prize, and took his B.A. degree, with a first class in the
Historical Tripos.         He also took a prominent part in the
Cambridge dramatic performances, and gained a good
reputation both in English comedy and in Greek tragedy.
    The more sedentary life of 1896 enabled me to com
plete a good deal of literary work.             In May the Geo
                                                    " The
logical Society published my paper on                        Tertiary
                                                           "1
Basalt-plateaux       of    North- Western      Europe          This
paper summed up the additions which I had been able to
make to the subject during the seven years that had
elapsed since the appearance of the quarto memoir of
 1888.     It included the results of the further study of the
 Inner Hebrides and the Faroe Islands.                 I contributed
                        "                          "
 also  an  article  on     Scottish  Mountains        to  the Scottish
 Mountaineering Journal.         But   the chief  occupation of my
 leisure hours was the preparation of two works which
 were published in the following year.            The first of these
 consisted of the course of lectures to be given at the Johns
 Hopkins University. The subject selected by me was
 one which had never been adequately treated in English,
 and yet possessed much interest to all geological students.
             "                             "
 The title      Founders of Geology           sufficiently indicated
 its general scope.        The second work was the gathering
 together   and    amplification of all that I had published in
 scattered papers and memoirs on the history of volcanic
 action in this country.       It was published at the beginning
 of 1897 in two large octavo volumes entitled The Ancient
  Volcanoes of Great Britain.
                1 In Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, May,  1896.

                      CHAPTER IX
         THE " WANDER JAHR         " OF   A GEOLOGIST
                             (1897)
The year 1897 was altogether an exceptional one in the
course of my life.     It was truly a " Wanderjahr," for it
included a much longer absence abroad, and a more varied
range of foreign travel than ever came in my way, either
before or since.    The spring found me in the United
States, and the autumn in Russia, from the Baltic to the
Caspian Sea.
   The early months of the year were spent at head
quarters, where much official work had to be arranged,
but brief visits were paid to the offices in Edinburgh and
Dublin, in order that my absence abroad should lead
to as little inconvenience as possible.          During these
months I also completed     what    remained  to be done to the
two volumes on the Ancient Volcanoes of Great Britain,
which were published on 9th April.          They were prefaced
with a dedication of them to Professor Fouque" and M.
                   "
Michel-Lévy, as       distinguished representatives of that
French school of Geology, which by the hands of Des-
marest founded the study of Ancient Volcanoes, and has
since done so much to promote its progress."
   Here may be intercalated mention of an incident which
took place later in this same year.       On 27th November a
letter, together with   a box,  came   to  me from the French
Embassy in London.         The letter expressed the desire of
the French Minister of Public Works that I should accept
the accompanying piece of china in recognition of my
services to French geologists.         The box contained a
                               282

     GIFT FROM FRENCH GOVERNMENT                        283
 beautiful coupe in the finest Sèvres ware.     I was much
 puzzled by this wholly unexpected gift, for though I lived
 on the most friendly terms with my scientific brethren in
 France, I was not aware of any service of mine that could
 call for such public acknowledgment.       It was not until
 the following spring that the matter was explained by the
 following letter from Professor Fouqué :
                                23  Rue Humboldt,
                                        26 Février 1898.
 Cher et honoré Confrère,
            Il y a quelques mois, M. Michel Lévy et moi
avons   demandé à notre Gouvernement de bien vouloir
vous accorder la décoration de la Légion d'Honneur.
 M. Linder, President du Service de la Carte Géologique
de la France, s'est associé à nous et a transmis notre
demande officielle à notre Ministère des Affaires
Etrangers.
    M. Hanotaux a, suivant l'usage, fait part à l'Ambas
sadeur de la Grande Bretagne de l'honneur qu'il avait le
dessin de vous conférer, et celui-ci a répondu que, tout en
sachant gré à notre Ministre de son intention, il le priait
de n'y pas donner suite.     Il a donné pour motif que le
Gouvernement Anglais n'aimait à voir ses nationaux
accepter   des décorations étrangères.      La dessus, M.
Hanotaux, désirant néanmois vous donner en notre nom
une marque publique d'estime, a eu l'idée de vous envoyer
un objet venant de la manufacture de Sèvres.
   Je regrette vivement pour mon compte que votre
Gouvernement soit aussi exclusif, car c'eut été pour moi
un grand plaisir d'établir entre nous un lien de fraternité
de plus.
   Veuillez agréer, avec mes regrets, mes salutations les
plus cordiales.
                                             F. Fouqué.
   Years passed, and when both my kind friends Fouqué
and Michel Lévy were no longer living, the Cross of the
Legion of Honneur was handed to me in St. James's

       "  THE FOUNDERS OF GEOLOGY                   "
284
Palace by the President of the French Republic, when he
held a reception during his visit to London in 191 3.
   The invitation to inaugurate the course of lectures
established in memory of Professor Williams at the Johns
Hopkins University gave me peculiar pleasure.         I had
great respect for the general body  of American  geologists,
as eminent pioneers alike in the stratigraphical, petro-
graphical and palaeontological branches of the science,
while for some of them, whose personal acquaintance I
had made, I entertained the warmest regard.       The work
of such explorers as Newberry, Powell, Dutton, King,
Gilbert, Hayden, Iddings, Leidy, Cope, Marsh and
others filled one with admiration.     Among these senior
men I had formed some fast friendships during my
former visit to the United States.    But a new generation
had arisen since then, and many active geologists had
come into prominence in all departments of the science.
The opportunity of meeting some of these younger men,
and of renewing personal intercourse with the veterans
who still survived, was welcomed by me as a great
privilege.   The letters which reached me from Baltimore
and from other parts of the States showed that great pains
were being taken to gather geologists, young and old,
from all parts of the country to meet me at Baltimore.
   Not a little consideration was needed to choose a
subject that would be likely to interest the cultivators of
each of the many departments of our science.      Obviously
it was undesirable to select a limited portion of this wide
field, even were it the part on which the lecturer himself
had chiefly worked.      As already mentioned, I made
choice of the history of geology, as revealed in the life-
work of a few of the more eminent observers out of whose
labours the framework of the science has been gradually
built up. The short but excellent historical summary,
given by Lyell in his Principles of Geology, was the best
compendium of the subject in English.          But a much
fuller statement, with the inclusion of other co-workers in
the same wide field, seemed to me desirable.     I therefore
set to work upon the older literature of the science which

           SOCIAL LIFE IN BALTIMORE                       285
comparatively few geologists have taken the time to read.
                                         "
The title chosen for the lectures,         The Founders of
Geology," indicated their partly biographical character.
    Leaving Liverpool on 10th April in the Campania,
one of the Cunard fleet, I reached New York in good
time for a reception with which my friends of the New
York Academy of Sciences honoured me, and thereafter
hurried on by rail to Baltimore.       During the stay there
I was the guest of W. B. Clarke, Professor of Geology
at Johns Hopkins         University, and Director of the
Geological Survey     of Maryland.     A goodly company of
geologists, some sixty in number, had been gathered
together, including many old friends and acquaintances.
Especially welcome was the presence of the intrepid
pioneer, J. W. Powell, and of C. D. Walcott, Director
of the United States Geological Survey ; W. H. Niles of
Boston, Samuel Calvin of Iowa, J. F. Kempe of Columbia
University, Edward Orton of Ohio, J. C. White of West
Virginia, L. V. Pirsson, H. S. Williams of Yale, and
F. C. Adams from Montreal. A few lady students
diversified the audience.     At the end of each lecture the
listeners came up in swift succession to be introduced to
the lecturer.    It was gratifying to meet so large a gather
ing  of  professional geologists, as well as of students from
so many widely scattered colleges and seminaries, and to
reflect that some of the young men who had come to hear
me would doubtless be leaders in the science in after
years.
    The social functions     prepared in my honour with
characteristic American hospitality, filled up every day,
terminating with a dinner and reception in the evening.
At one of these receptions I met Mr. Bonaparte, grandson
of Jerome, Napoleon's youngest brother, who married
Miss Patterson, a rich heiress of Baltimore.      He retained
the unmistakeable family features,         and much of the
courteous French manner.        He was, however, a thorough
American, wealthy,     and  one  of the most prominent and
useful men in the city.
    There is much in Baltimore to remind one that it is a

 286     BALTIMORE, A CITY OF THE SOUTH
 city of the South.    The vast number of negroes at once
                   "         " of
 arrests notice ;    darkies       every shade of nigritude
 from boot-blacking to the weakest café-au-lait.       They
 drive carriages, wait at table, act as porters, messengers,
 and in many other capacities.     The house of my host was
 entirely served by women of colour, and nothing could be
 more praiseworthy than the quiet orderly way in which
 they did their work.     The dark children seemed to me
to be specially interesting ; they look so merry and mis
 chievous, with their bright twinkling eyes and broad
grin.    I would sometimes stop to watch a group of them
        —  "
at play      innocent blacknesses," as Charles Lamb called
the boy chimney-sweepers of his day.         Another indica
tion of the southern latitude of Baltimore appears in the
wealth of fruit and vegetables that comes to table.       At
the time of my visit strawberries were in full plenitude,
and huge dishes of them appeared at breakfast, together
with melons and other luscious fruits.            With this
attractive course the breakfast began, and then marched
onward through porridge to piles of hot rolls, steak,
chicken, eggs, etc.     As breakfast has always been my
chief meal of the day, I fully appreciated this voluptuous
type of the repast.
    My course of lectures ended on Tuesday, 27th April,
and it had been arranged that the rest of the week should
be devoted to geological excursions.      After a day spent
in cruising in Chesapeake Bay, and landing at one or two
                                     "
places to look more narrowly at the    bluffs," we embarked
in a short train put at our service by the railway company,
to make a tour of three days through the western part
of Maryland and the eastern borders of West Virginia.
In this trip we descended into a coal mine, visited places
of geological interest in the valleys of the Potomac and
Shenandoah, and concluded with a visit to the battlefield
of Gettysburg.
    On the last day spent in Baltimore I was invited to take
part in a conference in memory of James Joseph Sylvester,
then recently deceased, who had been Professor of
Mathematics at the Johns Hopkins University from 1877

      RECOLLECTION OF J. J. SYLVESTER                      287
 to  1883.   I  had a profound respect for his scientific
 prowess, but unfortunately my intercourse with him in
 London and Oxford was too slight to warrant me in
 making any contribution to the reminiscences which were
 called forth on the occasion.     Moreover, our acquaint
ance was largely connected with some of the foibles of this
 great and really lovable man.    He was in the belief that
 the mantle of Milton, as a sonneteer, had descended upon
 him, and he used to read to me some of the effusions on
which he based this belief, and to consult me as to altera
tions which he proposed to make on some of them.            He
sincerely thought that, since the time of the author of
 Paradise Lost, no sonnets written in the English language
had been so fine as his own.      It almost seemed as if he
were disposed to pride himself more upon his sonnets than
upon his important contributions to mathematics.
    Leaving Baltimore on the morning of 3rd May, with
the heartiest good wishes of my friends there, I went on to
Washington to fulfil several engagements. Of these one
of the most interesting was to pay a visit to the office of the
Geological Survey of the United States — a much more
extensive establishment than ours in Jermyn Street.           I
found that besides the geological staff, it included a large
corps of topographers, engravers, printers, as well as the
officials who superintend national irrigation, water-supply,
and forest-lands.     With the Director of the whole
organisation, Mr. Walcott, I had long been in corres
pondence, and I had formed a high opinion of his ability,
both as an original man of science, and as a director of the
work of others. What perhaps interested me most, as
evidence of his personal character, was a small room, full
of boxes, cabinets, books, and papers, with hardly space
left in which to turn round.     To this little sanctum he
retired whenever a few moments could be snatched from
the day's work, in order to resume his labours among the
Cambrian trilobites — a department of palaeontology in
which he has become the highest authority.
    While in Washington, I was the guest of Mr. Arnold
Hague, one of the senior members of the Geological

288           THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Survey.    One afternoon      at  the  hour for tea, a visitor
called, whose entrance into the drawing-room was like a
blast of the north-west wind.          He appeared to be a
familiar friend of the house, for he kept walking to and
fro, loudly and graphically describing some recent
experiences of his in New York.            This proved to be
Theodore Roosevelt, President of the New York Police
Board, and afterwards for six years President of the
United States.     His pictures of police work were drawn
with a vigour and volubility that quite carried one away.
    Mr. Walcott took me to the White House to introduce
me to the President of the Republic at one of his usual
receptions.    We were ushered into a small, rather stuffy
room, with two windows (both closed) looking from the
second story into the gardens.         About a dozen callers
were there, waiting their turn for an interview with Mr.
Mackinlay, who stood at one end and received them as they
were successively presented.        He shook hands with each,
heard his story, and when necessary moved somewhat
nearer to the windows, so as to listen more in private.
He was evidently of a kindly nature, but one could
hardly say that decision of character appeared strongly
marked in his physiognomy.          With conspicuous courtesy
of manner, he combined a quiet businesslike way of
getting through the work.          In the course of my brief
interview with him he remarked that I would notice the
difference of style between his receptions and the more
formal state of my own country.         I alluded to the tax on
his strength which this part of his official duties must
involve.    He admitted that it was so, for the reception
lasted three hours.    I tried to picture to myself the mental
strain of being at the call of everybody who has, or imagines
that he has, a grievance, and of listening attentively and
giving in each case the proper answer, without unwarily
committing himself or raising undue hopes.           The caller
who preceded Mr. Walcott and me was a negro woman
who wanted redress from some injury or other. Altogether
the scene had a curiously primitive or patriarchial aspect.
Had the President been seated, wearing a silk robe and a

          BRYN MAWR LADIES' COLLEGE                      289
 turban on his head, the place might have passed for the
 court of some caliph of medieval times. We remained for
 only a few minutes of interview, and then retired to make
 way for further callers.
    The few days spent in Washington were each ter
 minated by a dinner, where I had the pleasure of meeting
 some of the leaders in science and literature, and some of
 the men of mark in the political world.      But I was not
 allowed to escape without giving a public address, and
 holding a reception and shaking hands with several
 hundred listeners.    From Washington I paid a brief visit
 to the Bryn Mawr Ladies' College on the invitation of the
 President, Miss Thomas.        About half an hour's railway
journey from Philadelphia, this admirable institution
 stands in a picturesque, green, rolling, well-wooded
 country, like much of our Surrey.       It was attended by
 some three hundred students, who were housed and taught
 in a group of buildings designed after colleges in Oxford
 and Cambridge.      The girls were in the midst of a game
of ball, which they seemed thoroughly to enjoy, for they
made quite as much noise as a corresponding number of
 Harrow boys could have done. In the evening after
dinner I was asked to address an assemblage of the
students ; so for half-an-hour I transported them to my
beloved Western Isles, their scenery, customs, supersti
tions, traditions, and geology, dwelling, towards the close,
on the pleasure and interest which some knowledge of the
geology of a country gives to the intelligent visitor.
With the teacher of geology at the College, Miss Florence
Bascom, who was one of my auditors at Baltimore, I had
next morning a long talk over the practical difficulties
she found in enlisting the interest of the average student
in her subject.
    A halt had to be made at Philadelphia, where the
American Philosophical Society wished me to discourse
to them.     As one of its honorary members I was glad of
the brief opportunity of meeting this Society, probably
the oldest scientific institution of the kind in the United
States, having been founded by Benjamin Franklin in the
     A.G.                       T

29o             LECTURE AUDIENCES
Colonial days.      It still meets in its old rooms, where the
Declaration of Independence was signed.               A kind of
antique aroma hangs about the place, which I have found
 nowhere else in America, save in the older parts of Boston
and its suburbs.      It was a matter of some interest to com
pare the type of the audiences which one addressed in the
different centres of population.       It seemed to me that the
type   of Philadelphia    could   be  differentiated  from those
of Baltimore, of Washington and of New York. There
was, of course, the usual commingling of professions —
judges,     professors,     merchants,     physicians,    lawyers,
 bankers, and others.       Many, perhaps even most of those
who formed the gathering in Philadelphia may have been
 members of the learned Society in whose apartments we
 met.    There may, therefore, have been some pervading
 influence from that distinguished body, which gave a
 special gravity of demeanour to the company.           In talking
with the ladies, of whom a large number were present, I
was surprised to find how many of them were familiar
with geological literature.       One dark-eyed maiden, who
from her attire might have been supposed to be chiefly
 concerned with the dressmaker and the ball-room,
thanked me heartily for my Text-book of Geology, which,
she said, had been of great service to her in her studies of
 the science.    But the general impression left on my mind
was that more interest in literature and science seemed to
 be taken by the society in which I had been moving in the
 United States than would be found in corresponding
 circles at home.       I was sometimes astonished to find
 both men and women referring to published papers of
 mine which I should hardly have supposed them likely
 to have even heard of.
     In New York I was the guest of Mr. Dodge, a wealthy
 merchant, full of intelligence, and well known for his wide
 philanthropy.     He assembled at dinner examples of
 what was best in the cultivated society of the city.        They
 included one   or two politicians   of note —  Mr. Carl Schulz,
 formerly   Minister     of  the Interior,   and  Mr. Whitelaw
 Reid, U.S. Ambassador to France.              With the latter I

 W. REID, H. F. OSBORNE, O.              C.  MARSH       291
had long and pleasant converse.       He told me much that
was interesting about his experiences in Paris, and the
people he had met there.     He said that he had lately been
offered the Embassy to Great Britain, but had reluctantly
to decline it on account of his health.     He seemed to be
suffering from some affection of the throat or lungs which
necessitated   his wintering in Egypt, and latterly in
Arizona. A few years after this time he did come to
London as American Ambassador, and gained the esteem
and affection of all who met him.
   Another member of the party was Judge Daly, a
delightful octogenarian, who at the time was President of
the Geographical Society.      I was greatly impressed by
one of the younger guests, Professor Henry Fairfield
Osborne, who seemed to be one of the ablest men I had
yet met in America.      As a skilled palaeontologist he was
devoting   himself to the study of the huge fossil vertebrate
animals of the Far West. The impression formed at the
dinner table was amply strengthened next day, when, at
his request, I met him in the great Museum in Central
Park, and was conducted through his astonishing collection
of the remains of extinct vertebrates, and his ingenious
restorations of them.     Since those days he has steadily
risen in eminence, till he is now in America at the head of
the branch of science to which he has devoted his life.
   Leaving New York I made for New Haven, in order to
spend a day or two with Professor O. C. Marsh at his
"
   wigwam," as he named his curiously shaped residence
there.   He narrated to me many of his experiences in
the hunt for fossil skeletons in the Western States and
Territories, and I urged him to write them down.           In
subsequent years we met from time to time in Europe,
and I repeated my wish that he would commit to writing
the story of his western adventures.        But so far as I
know, the record of them died with him.        On the 14th
of May I left New York in the Etruria, and by the 21st I
was once more back in London.
   This journey to America having consumed the whole
of the annual vacation allowed by the rules of the

292    GEOLOGICAL CONGRESS IN RUSSIA
Geological Survey, the rest of the year would normally have
been entirely spent by me in official duties.      But there
was a further call for my presence abroad at the end of the
summer. The Seventh International Geological Congress
was to meet at St. Petersburg, and there were special
reasons, political as well as geological, why the invitation
of the Russian Government should be fully accepted.
The Royal Society had appointed me, in association with
Professor Hughes of Cambridge, its delegates to the
meeting.     My official chiefs, recognising the importance
of the occasion, most liberally granted me special leave of
absence to attend.
   It appeared that the Emperor of Russia, Alexander    III.,
had taken keen interest in the sending of an invitation to
the Geological Congress to visit Russia, and had given
instructions that, when the visit came, every effort should
be made by the Russian authorities to ensure its success.
He did not live to see his desire carried out, but his
son, Nicholas II., who was now Emperor, took care that
the paternal wishes should be obeyed.          Consequently
the Congress, during its sittings at St. Petersburg and
throughout every one of its excursions to different parts
of the vast empire, was munificently fathered by the
Government.       No other meeting of this International
Association, either before or since, has been so lavishly
supported by the State.      Without halting on the journey
to St. Petersburg, I arrived there on the morning of
Saturday 28th August.
   Before the Congress had entered on its business,
representatives of eighteen countries which had sent
delegates to the meeting were invited to Peterhof, the sea
side retreat of the Imperial family, where the Grand Duke
Constantine,     Honorary President of the Congress,
received them and presented them to the Emperor and
Empress.     One could not but be struck with the remark
able family likeness between the Czar and our Prince of
Wales, now King George.          He spoke to me in good
English,   with   a slightly foreign accent and occasional
hesitation for a word.     The Czarina, who stood at a short

 INTERVIEW WITH RUSSIAN MINISTER                        293
distance, captivated me, with her winsome looks, her sweet
smile, and the little twinkle in the eyes that betokened a
keen sense of humour.         She spoke English perfectly,
and asked a number of questions about the Congress and
its excursions.
    The business done at the daily meetings was of the
usual type, and is fully narrated in the official Comptes-
rendus.     Such leisure time as it afforded was given to
some of the many attractions of the Russian capital, more
especially to the magnificent collection of pictures and
antiquities in the Hermitage Palace.      The evenings were
filled with receptions and banquets, at some of which it
was possible to have conversation with a few of the more
prominent citizens.     I was more especially interested in
an interview with the Minister of Agriculture, who dis
coursed most intelligently and patriotically on the natural
wealth of Russia, which lay undeveloped for want of capital.
He pressed upon me the desirability of inducing rich
Englishmen to invest some of their wealth in his country,
which would be greatly benefited thereby, while at the
same time a good and steady return would be forthcoming
to the investors.
    One of the pleasantest entertainments was a dinner to
which a few of us were invited at Oranienbaum, opposite
to Cronstadt, the country palace of the Dukes George
and Michel of Mecklenburg.         Duke George, the senior
brother, had made a morganatic marriage with a lady of
the court, the Countess Carlow.        At dinner the hostess
engaged      me  in  much   interesting conversation.    She
spoke English fluently, and I found her charming, not
only in her frank and gracious manner, but in her widely
cultivated and keen intelligence.       She gave her views
on education, the position and tendencies of women in
Russia, the trend of modern literature, the French stage,
and other topics.    She had an English nurse for her three
little girls, who spoke English with the nurse and Russian
with their parents.     After dinner, during coffee in the
drawing-room, seven Russian musicians, in a sober dark
uniform, discoursed national music on curious triangular

 194     ORANIENBAUM            AND DUKE GEORGE
 instruments, resembling zithers or guitars, but with only
 three strings — an invention       of Duke George. The
 players and their instruments were graduated in size.
At one end of the row sat a big, burly, bearded Russ,
 with the largest instrument, while the other end ter
 minated in a small boy playing on a little toy-like repro
duction of the same type.       Much of the music being of a
 dance kind, one of the ladies at last rose and began alone
 a Russian dance, a sort of running galop, with pauses and
 stamping of the feet in time.      By and by Duke George
joined her, and the dance was ended by their wheeling
round with joined arms, and his finally depositing her
upon an ottoman.       The evening left a pleasant memory
 of a little glimpse of home-life in the higher Russian
 society.
    The remarkable programme of excursions and enter
 tainments organised by the Russian authorities attracted
 from the neighbouring countries, more especially from
 Germany, many young men who joined the Congress in
 order to take advantage of this favourable opportunity of
 seeing the interior of Russia.     One unfortunate result of
 this liberality was soon made manifest.        These youths
 continually pushed themselves forward, took possession
 of the best seats, and filled the carriages provided for the
 members of the Congress. When we steamed down the
 Neva and landed at the Peterhof quay, every carriage in
 waiting was promptly seized by these youths.      But for the
 intervention of an elderly geologist who, recognising Dr.
 Torell of Stockholm and myself, still on foot, insisted on
 room being made for us in the last carriage, we should
 have been left behind.        Some of the company would
 appear   to have been  thieves  as well as roughs, for I was
 told that a cap which had belonged to Peter the Great
 was missing after the party had left the palace.
    Of the various excursions provided by the authorities
 for the Congressists after the close of the meeting, I made
 choice of that which would best reveal the interior of
 Russia, and afford the most varied aspects of the physical
 features, the geology and the inhabitants of this vast

   DESCENT OF VOLGA TO TZARITZIN                          295
country.     It was arranged that those who selected this
excursion should travel by Moscow to the Volga, descend
that river to Tzaritzin, cross the Steppes by Rostov to
Vladikavkaz, traverse the Caucasus to Tiflis and the Cas
pian Sea, returning by rail to Batum, crossing the Black
Sea to the Crimea, and finally breaking up at Odessa.      At
every halting-place throughout this extended journey,
more or less elaborate preparations had been made for our
entertainment.     At the towns we were feasted by the
civic authorities.    Even in the sparsely peopled regions
through which we had to pass, infinite trouble had been
taken to make things pleasant for us. A number of the
English members of the Congress took part in this
excursion.     It was especially pleasant to have the com
pany of Professor and Mrs. Hughes, John Murray of
the Challenger, and a few more fellow-countrymen, and
I greatly enjoyed the opportunity of coming into closer
and more continuous contact with Ferdinand Zirkel ; we
shared the same cabin in the steamboat, the same carriage
across the mountains, and the same compartment in the
trains.
   The sail of some eleven hundred miles down the Volga
in a roomy steamboat, continued for six days and nights,
was an impressive experience.        The tameness of the
scenery, with its persistent bluffs and cliffs on the west
side and low shores on the opposite horizon, would be
somewhat monotonous but for the vastness of the great
body of water, the occasional picturesque towns on the
banks, and the unceasing traffic of the varied craft that
move up and down the stream.        We halted at some of the
towns, and here and there at localities where landings were
made to examine geological sections.       At some of these
halts,  fresh  supplies of oil were taken  on board for the
engines.     There is always more or less leakage in this
replenishing of the fuel, and in consequence an iridescent
film of oil may be noticed on the placid surface of the river.
 It is said that the sturgeon and sterlet now ascend
the Volga for some hundred miles less than they used to
do, and this change has been attributed to the effect of this

296      SARATOW.        ACROSS       THE STEPPES
extremely attenuated film in interfering with the proper
oxygenation of the water.      The river was low at the time
of our voyage ; but was still in some places three miles
wide.      Here and there it is so shallow that navigation
requires a good deal of caution and the use of a long pole
for sounding.      We stuck on a sand-bank for some hours
one night.      The nights at this time were marvellously
beautiful.     It was nearly full moon, and such stars as
were visible seemed to swim overhead.         One could easily
read large   print by the moonlight.
    Saratow, where we had a great reception from the civic
authorities, stands at the level of the sea, so that every mile
of the rest of the voyage brought us further below that
level into the great hollow of the Caspian basin.            At
Tsaritzin the voyage came to an end. We then crossed
the Steppes by railway to Rostov, passing for some three
hundred miles through a bare country with few trees,
not many visible towns or villages, only scattered hamlets
and farms, and a scarcity of definite roads.    At the stations
where the train stopped there was generally a muster of
peasants to look at the strangers, and be driven back by the
officials.   The obedience of the peasantry to their head
men was specially conspicuous at the halts made on the
Volga, when we landed at places where there would some
times seem to be no habitations in sight.       Before we had
been many minutes ashore a few women and children
would be joined by others who came scrambling down the
rocky bluffs, until quite a crowd assembled to watch us.
If the crowd approached too near, their officials, with stout
cudgels, and uttering loud imprecations, drove them back,
and the peasants obeyed implicitly.      Notice had been sent
to all these halting-places that our steamboat would call,
and that every facility was to be given to us.
   From Vladikavkaz, which is the terminus of the railway,
we crossed the chain of the Caucasus by the Dariel Pass
in well-horsed carriages, in the first of which Zirkel and I
were sent off.     The long procession was headed by a
mounted and fully-armed Cossack as guard and escort,
who was replaced by another at every military post.        We

   CONE OF KASBEK.                ROUND TOWERS                  297
 had thus a good opportunity of seeing the different types
of men who form the troops that maintain order in this
mountainous region.          The drive across the mountain
chain involved several nights in rough inns or caravan-
series.    At the first of these, when we awoke next morning,
we saw the majestic snowy cone of Kasbek in front of us,
gleaming in the morning sun under a deep blue sky.
This graceful mountain, though not            the highest peak in
the chain, rises to 16,546 feet above the sea, and thus
surpasses Mont Blanc in height.             It was interesting to
note the endless moraine-mounds here scattered over the
bottom of the valley, showing how large the glaciers must
once have been.        I observed that one of the lava streams
had overflowed a moraine, so that glaciers and volcanic
activity must have been at work here contemporaneously
in comparatively recent time.1
    In ascending the course of the Terek River, one is
struck by the scanty traces of human habitation.               Here
and there an old fort with a few houses around it tells of
the strife of which the valley was once the scene ; and an
occasional lonely and melancholy graveyard, crowded with
tombstones, is a still moreimpressive record of the struggle
that went on before the Russians subdued the hardy
mountaineers.       As the journey continued on the southern
side of the watershed, evidence of a still older warfare was
to be seen in the round tower which rises in the midst of
each hamlet or village.        At Ginvani I examined one of
these towers.      It was strongly built, without windows,
and with only one small entrance or doorway some ten
or twelve feet above the ground, which was no doubt
reached by a ladder that could be pulled up inside.           These
buildings resemble the Irish round towers, and were
probably built for the same purpose of affording protec
tion for human life or property, at the time of a raid by one
or other of the many distinct Caucasian tribes.              But as
   1 In the Times of
                     25th March, 1919, a telegram announced that
Elbruz, the highest peak of the Caucasus, was on 16th March " dis
charging smoke and sending blocks of ice to the foot of the mountain
in numerous torrents."

298      TIFLIS, BY RAILWAY TO BAKU
the necessity   for shelter of this kind has ceased, these
curious towers are now allowed to fall into decay.        The
long carriage drive across the Caucasus, which was
enlivened by many amusing and interesting incidents,
ended at Tiflis, where further municipal             attention
awaited us.
    The railway eastward from Tiflis to Baku crosses a wide
tract of desert, across which strings of camels may here
and there be seen on the march, or at rest.    Eventually, in
the far distance, a cloud of black smoke comes into sight
rising from the ground into the clear desert air, and
within it a forest of tall tapering chimney-like stacks
gradually appears.      When the train stops the traveller
finds himself in all the noise, bustle, dirt and ugliness of a
manufacturing town.       But what a strange commingling
of old and new ! — camels, mules, Moslems, Greek priests,
Armenians, Georgians, Cossacks, Russian officials and
European workmen, all elbowing each other in the streets.
After seeing all that was essential, from the geological
point of view, in the oil-workings, we enjoyed a short
cruise in a small steamboat on the Caspian Sea.         It was
soon obvious that the inflammable gas which rises so
abundantly from the ground in many places, likewise finds
its way to the open air from under the floor of the Caspian.
Every here and there the surface of the water is broken by
the uprise of bubbles of gas.     We threw some pieces of
lighted tarry tow on places where the ebullition was
briskest, when the gas at once burst into flame, which
continued on the surface of the dancing waves, sometimes
shooting up into the air, until blown out by the wind.        I
noticed the same oily iridescent film on the surface of the
Caspian Sea as was observed on the Volga.
   At Balakhany, a few miles east of Baku, the escape of
gas is still more strikingly exhibited.      While we were
there a column of black oil, water and gas rushed, like a
geysir, with great energy up the tapering wooden shaft
which had been built over the orifice of discharge.        The
eruption, rising inside the woodwork into the open air
above to a height of some seventy feet, descended again

OLD TEMPLE OF FIRE-WORSHIPPERS                            299
in a black rain, much of which ran down the outside of the
shaft or was blown by the wind over the surrounding
ground. These ejections succeeded each other at brief
intervals.
   A memorable feature of this trip from Baku was a visit
to the ancient temple of the fire-worshippers at Sourak-
hany.    Many generations ago a battlemented wall had
been built round an irregular piece of ground which
included several places whence gas issues continually.
Along the inside of this wall a number of cells had been
constructed with inscriptions on them.         We were told
that until only some eight or nine years before the time of
our visit, priests from India lived here and kept the fire
continually burning.       Tall stone chimneys had been
erected over the chief vents of gas.     We threw a lighted
match into the opening at the     base of one of these chim
neys, and  the gas instantly became alight, the flame rushing
upward with a roar like that of a blast furnace.       Before
returning to the main party, I strolled across a little space
of the bare, dusty desert to a gently rising ground where a
couple of swarthy half-naked workmen (the thermometer
stood at 900 in the shade) were heaping up a large cairn
of blocks of limestone, like other similar heaps in the
immediate neighbourhood.         They had selected the spots
where the emanation of gas was briskest, and when they
threw a lighted match into one of the cairns the whole pile
was instantly enveloped in a blaze of roaring flame, which
would soon turn the stones into marketable lime.
   Returning to Tiflis, we went on by railway to Batum on
the Black Sea, whence a commodious steamboat conveyed
the party to the Crimea.       The mountain scenery visible
in the course of this traverse included the glorious heights
of the Ararat range to the south, and the vast chain of the
Caucasus to the east.     We slowed down in one part of the
voyage to let John Murray and the Russian geographers
take soundings and temperatures, and make other observa
tions on the interesting physics of this great inland sea.
Landing at Kertch we were able to visit the famous mud
volcanoes, and came in for a further display of municipal

 300     OVERTAKEN BY A HURRICANE
hospitality.   The Governor, a naval officer, presided at
the banquet.     When Mr. Wardrop, the English Consul,
introduced me to him, he at once claimed me as an old
acquaintance, for he had been educated in my school books.
   After a most interesting and varied week in the Crimea,
in which geology was merged in promiscuous sight
seeing and continued official hospitality, we completed the
last scene of the excursion by sailing from Sebastopol to
Odessa.      A memorable incident in this voyage was the
oncoming of a storm.      We watched a ragged fringe of
cloud dipping down in long curtain-like folds that reached
the surface of the sea, which was whisked up and mingled
with the cloud.    There was a hissing sound in the air as
the hurricane advanced swiftly towards us with a distinct
front, tearing the tops off the waves and beating the sea
into foam.     When it reached us rain fell in a torrent, and
the tempest shrieked through the rigging of the vessel.
Just before the tornado struck us two merlin hawks came
abreast of the ship ; one of them, so tired that it
perched on the bowsprit, was easily caught.     A woodcock
was also driven past us, and one or two small birds.       As
already stated, the excursion was to come to       an  end at
Odessa.      Most of the members returned across Russia
by the most direct route.      With Professor and Mrs.
Hughes and one or two more friends, I arranged to travel
homeward by Constantinople and the Mediterranean.
   The skill and success wherewith every detail of this
long and somewhat complicated excursion was planned
and executed could not but call forth unstinted praise
from the excursionists.     Before we separated on our
several homeward journeys, we sent from Odessa a tele
gram of sincere thanks to the Emperor, and another to the
Grand Duke Constantine, our Honorary President.             A
gracious reply came at once from the Grand Duke, but
none had come from His Majesty when we left Odessa.
At Constantinople, however, one of the first boats to come
off to our steamboat carried a Russian official waving a
paper in his hand, and shouting my name. The document
he brought was a courteous and kindly telegram from the

                 ODESSA TO ATHENS                          301
Czar, at Hesse Darmstadt, expressing his pleasure in the
success of the excursion, and wishing us well.
   The steamboat, Emperor Nicholas II., which conveyed
our diminished party from Odessa to the Turkish capital,
and thence to Athens, was a fine large steamship built on
the Clyde, but its Russian owners were allowing its paint
to wear off, its ironwork to rust, and its interior to lack the
tidiness which is found in our own mercantile marine.
At Constantinople, where we arrived after midday, most
of that afternoon and of the next morning was given to
seeing as much, as in the time was possible, of the Turkish
capital.    We had arrived under a grey sky, but in leaving
were favoured with an afternoon and evening of uncom
mon beauty.      As we looked back upon the city, its famous
charms came out in full glory.     Above the old line of sea
walls it rose in one varied mass of buildings and foliage,
its domes and minarets towering along the skyline and
quivering in the mellow rays of the western sun.          Con
spicuous in this light, the chain of battlemented walls and
towers of Roman days swept across the ridge till lost in the
distance, looking majestic, venerable, and utterly apart
from all the din and tumult of Turk, Greek, and Armenian
behind them.      Beyond these massive walls the sun-lit city
shone out against the background of smoke and mist from
the great harbour.      On the opposite side, Scutari caught
the evening light on its buildings and vast hospital.      The
scene fully justified all that has been said and written
in its praise.
    It was dark when we entered the Dardanelles. Early
next morning the
                     " isles of Greece " were in            To
                                                   sight.
one who vividly recalled the spell which in youth this
region had for him, and who now saw it for the first time,
the voyage to Athens was like a dream.           The weather
could not have been more propitious.         The clear bright
sky was flecked with a few white clouds.          The islands,
bathed in a rosy light, stood one after another out of a sea
of deepest azure that sparkled in little sunlit wavelets
under a pleasant cool breeze as we sped along — Imbros,
Lemnos, Tenedos, Lesbos, Chios, while landward in the

302    THE ISLES OF GREECE.                      ATHENS
                             "                             Now
distance we could see         many-fountained Ida."
and then a group of dolphins came sporting abreast of us,
leaping out of the water or rushing along underneath        it,
so close to the vessel as to be clearly visible, then plunging
into the depths, and recalling the old legend of inter
Delphinas Arion.
   After the halt of night at Smyrna,
                        a                    it was under the
same conditions of weather that we approached the shores
of Attica.             "
              Passing     Sunium's marbled steep," with its
columns of Athena's temple, we came in sight of Aegina       ;
beyond  it  Salamis, and     byand by, behind       low island,
                                                    a
came the Acropolis of Athens, with Hymettus and
Pentelicon in the background, while far away to the
north-west rose the snow-capped summits of Helicon and
Parnassus.     The classic memories of one's youth came
back with     thrill of pleasure.
               a                     Ifelt with Keats that
               The very music of the names had   gone
               Into my being.
   Every hour of the short stay at Athens was spent in
visiting the relics still left of the ancient city. We made
an excursion to Marathon, and also walked out to Eleusis
along the Sacred Way, reverently entered the temple of the
mysteries, sat among the marble seats of the theatre of
Dionysus, still bearing the incised names of their ancient
occupants, and remembered that Aeschylus was born here.
While we were in Athens, the modern theatre there was
opened for the first time after the end of the war with
the Turks, and the drama chosen for the occasion was
Shakespeare's Macbeth.       was the worst performance of
                             It
the play   had ever seen   but there was much interest in
        it I
                            ;
hearing    recited    modern Greek.
                      in
   From Athens the return journey was made as rapidly as
possible,  byway of Patras, Corfu and Brindisi to Naples.
Vesuvius being actually       eruption, we halted to have
                                in
an opportunity of climbing the mountain and seeing its
condition.   We found the new outflow of ropy lava
creeping slowly downward under its pile of rugged slag,
and Mrs. Hughes took excellent photographs of its most

             VESUVIUS IN ERUPTION                  303
striking features. When the wind blew the steam cloud
aside for a few moments, we could see a hundred feet or
more down into the steaming abyss of the crater. Every
few minutes there came a rumble, then a roar, when
clouds of steam surged up out of the depths.      Once
a crowd of red-hot and also black stones went whizzing
high overhead, some of which fell near us.   One of the
black fragments that looked quite cool blistered my
fingers when I lifted it from the ground.
   We hurried on to Rome, and taking the St. Gothard
route reached London on the evening of 30th October.

                      CHAPTER X
      LAST YEARS IN THE GEOLOGICAL            SURVEY
                        (i 898-1 903)
During     my long service in the Geological Survey, it
was the continued opinion of the Treasury, and of the
successive Government departments under which we were
placed, that this branch of the public service is of a tem
porary nature, and should cease to exist when the whole
of the United Kingdom has once been all geologically
mapped.     We were therefore continually urged to push
forward the completion of the mapping, an order which
we did our best to carry out, so far as this could be done
without sacrifice of the accuracy which might be attain
able.   But we knew full well that where, as often occurs,
the ground is obscure, the boundary lines which we have
tentatively traced on the maps may be shown, by subse
quent boring or other laying open of the underground,
to require alteration.  Sir Roderick Murchison used to
maintain that there is as much need for a permanent
Geological Survey in the country as for an Astronomical
Observatory, in order that a watch may be kept on fresh
openings of the soil which would furnish material for
making the geological maps more accurate, and keeping
them up to date.
   The Staff of the service was well aware that the early
sheets of the map of England and Wales, on the one
inch scale, surveyed by De La Beche and his colleagues,
excellent for the time when they were published, might
with advantage be superseded by re-mapping the ground
on a larger scale.   We knew that more especially would
the maps of the mineral fields need to be revised and
                             304

         GEOLOGICAL MAPS UP TO DATE                      305
kept up to date.     It was obvious, however, that no such
revision would be authorised by the Government of the
day, unless under strong pressure from the public, especi
ally from the communities in the mining districts.         As
already   mentioned,   such   pressure  had  eventually come
from Cornwall and from South Wales, with the result
that the ruling powers consented that these districts
should be re-surveyed on maps of the scale of six inches
to a mile.   But a condition was imposed that the revision
should not entail any increase in the annual grant voted
by Parliament to the Survey.        Obviously this condition
would require the transference of some members of the
staff from the areas on which they were at work, involving
consequent delay in the completion of these areas.      After
some shifting of this nature was made, the revision of
the old mining districts of Cornwall and of the great coal
field of South Wales had been undertaken.         By degrees,
during my    tenure  of office, the re-mapping was extended
to the coal districts of North Staffordshire, Leicestershire,
and Derbyshire.
    There can be no doubt that from the industrial point
of view Murchison's verdict was the true one.           When
the whole of the United Kingdom has been geologically
surveyed, the maps will need to be kept abreast of the pro
gress of our knowledge of the geological structure of the
country.    For this purpose no large staff may be required.
But, as I have insisted in a former chapter, a body of
skilled observers should be maintained, whose duty would
be to watch the fresh revelations of what lies below the
surface in all parts of the country, such as the information
yielded by the cuttings and tunnels of new railways, the
development of the mineral fields, the results of boring for
water or for minerals, and the other operations which
furnish fresh knowledge of the rocks of the terrestrial
crust.    There should be a central office to which notice
of these new explorations would be required to be sent,
and at which all the new information obtained would be
recorded and made available for correcting and improving
the geological maps.
     AG.                        v

 306   MY RETIREMENT APPROACHING
    The first shadows of my retirement from the Geo
logical Survey were now beginning to project themselves
around me.       By the rules of the Civil Service, a public
servant can retire and claim his pension on reaching the
age of sixty, but should he still be able to perform the
duties of his office he may remain for five years more.
 After that time he cannot be retained, unless exceptional
circumstances make it desirable, in the public interest,
that his term should be extended. As there were no such
circumstances in my case, I would retire in less than two
years, on reaching the age-limit of sixty-five.     The last
two years of my tenure of office were therefore largely
devoted to completing as far as possible all official under
takings which depended mainly on myself.          As for the
working of the Survey and Museum, the whole service
was now in such a state of efficiency that I might retire at
any time, confident that my place could at once be ade
quately filled by one or other of my capable colleagues on
the staff.
   Among the pieces of work which it was desirable to
complete before my retirement, was the editing of a
deta1led memoir on the Silurian rocks of Scotland, which
had been in progress for some years.       To my great satis
faction it was finished and published during the summer
of 1899 — a massive octavo volume of 750 pages, with
numerous figures in the text, twenty-seven plates, and an
index map.      It was the combined work of three of the
ablest men on the staff —B. N. Peach, John Horne and
J. J. H. Teall, and is one of the finest monographs which
the Survey ever produced.        I count it no small honour
to have helped in the planning and completion of this
important treatise.    I may here quote a few sentences
from a letter written to me at the time by Professor
Barrois of Lille, who, of all the Continental geologists, was
probably the one who could best appreciate the value of
              "
the work.       Je viens de lire les Chapitres    III  et IV,
et je suis émerveillé de cette ceuvre.        Je vous serais
reconnaissant de dire a MM. Peach et Horne en quelle
grande estime je tiens leur ceuvre,       C'est de la strati

   SURVEY MEMOIRS TO BE COMPLETED                          307
graphie remarquablement précise et détaille\ dont les
conclusions sont tres logiquement deMuites.        Si Dieu me
 prete vie je  le prendrai pour  modele   dans  la description
de la Bretagne que je voudrais écrire."
    There were two other Survey memoirs which I had
 myself undertaken to write.        One of these dealt with
 the geology of central and western Fife and Kinross ; the
other would describe the geology of eastern Fife.        These
 memoirs ought to have appeared many years before, but
 the member of the staff who surveyed most of the ground
 could never be induced to write out his descriptions,
and was now no longer in the service.        Having mapped
some parts of the districts in question, and having
examined from time to time every portion of them, I at
last resolved to write the memoirs myself.       The first was
completed     and  published  in   June 1900    as  an octavo
volume of 284 pages, with illustrations.       Besides giving
a description of the coalfields, it contains the first detailed
account of the volcanic phenomena for which that district
of Fife and Kinross is so remarkable. The memoir on
eastern Fife was in progress, but it could not be com
pleted before the date of my retirement.
    By far the most onerous official literary task in pros
pect, however, was the production of the large memoir to
be devoted to the description of the complicated type of
geological structure which the Survey had worked out in
great detail in Sutherland and Ross.        As a preliminary
to this work, much consultation was needful with the
members of the staff by whom the mapping had been
done, before the plan of the volume and the distri
bution of its sections among the six contributing authors
could be arranged.        The preparation of the memoir
would probably take several years.             Having been
personally in charge of the field-work during the whole
time of its progress, I was asked to undertake the super
intendence and editing of the volume, though it could
not be completed until some time after my retirement.
It did not appear ultimately until the middle of 1907.
Thus my connection with the Survey was not finally

308     VOLUME OF HUTTON'S " THEORY "
severed until six years after      I  had ceased to be one  of
the staff.
    Notwithstanding the pressure of official work, which it
was my wish to complete during these last two years on
the Geological Survey,    I found time for a few non-official
undertakings.     Most important of these was a piece of
literary work, entirely after my own heart, which was
entrusted to me in the summer of 1897. That classic of
geological literature, the immortal Theory of the Earth, by
James Hutton, was published in 1795 in two volumes,
but it was known that a third volume had never seen the
light. Search had been made for the missing manuscript
without success.     Eventually I learnt that a portion of it
existed in the possession of the Geological Society of
London.      Fresh exertions were then made to trace other
parts, but again to no purpose.         The portion preserved
by   the  Society consisted   of  six  chapters, one of which
contained the author's account of his researches in the
island of Arran, and was of special interest, for it would
show, probably better than any part of the two published
volumes, Hutton's qualities as an original observer in the
field.   These six precious chapters, bound in one volume,
had come into the possession of Leonard Horner, by
whom they were given to the Geological Society in
 1856. As it was highly desirable that they should at
last be published, I appealed to the President and Council
of the Society to take the matter into consideration ;
offering at the same time to edit the work, should its
 publication be undertaken.        This proposal having been
 accepted, I was authorised     to   have the manuscript care
 fully copied for the use of editor and printer.     A certain
 amount of research was involved among the publications
 of the close of the eighteenth and beginning of the nine
 teenth century, and a number of explanatory notes were
 required.    The most serious lacuna in the original manu
 script was the absence of all the plates, drawings or
 diagrams with which the author intended to illustrate his
 text.   In order to supply as many of them as related to
 the account of observations made in Arran, which formed

               THE ROMANES LECTURE                            309
the   most valuable chapter, I returned in the summer
of 1898 to the island, which was then being surveyed by
my colleague, the late William Gunn.               With his com
pany    and  help,   I succeeded, by means of photographic
camera and sketch-book,            in obtaining views of the
structures exposed at the localities described by Hutton.
The preparation of the volume, which necessarily involved
a good deal of time and work, was completed in the course
of the year. Type and paper were chosen as similar
as was obtainable to those of the published volumes, and
the book was issued in February 1899 as a volume of
278 pages.       In an appendix I added an index, and also
an index to the two published volumes, which had been
made long before for my own use.              Of all the publica
tions with which I have been connected, none ever gave
me more unalloyed gratification than the preparation of
this volume, more than a hundred years after the death of
its illustrious author.        To be permitted to render any
service, how slight soever, to the memory of this notable
member of the group of founders of geology was an
honour and privilege of which no geologist could fail to
be proud.
   On 1st June, 1898, I gave at Oxford the Romanes
                                       "
Lecture, taking as the subject           Types of Scenery and
                                    " 1—
their influence on Literature            a theme which, among
the many varied landscapes through which a geologist
passes in the pursuit of his science, had long occupied my
thoughts.      Of the letters that came to me in reference
to this lecture, I specially valued the criticism of W. J.
Courthope, co-editor of Pope and Professor of Poetry in
Oxford University.
   "                         I
      9th June, 1898.           have been reading your Lecture
with the greatest pleasure.          Though I am not myself
inclined to assign quite the same importance that you
do to Landscape as an element in poetry — that is to
say, though I do not        think that the very greatest poets
ever leave the sphere      of action for that of predominant
             1
               Reprinted in Landscape in History, p. 76.

 3io        ON MACPHERSON'S "OSSIAN"
 reflection and description —yet I fully feel the charm of
 the poetic landscape-painting on which you dwell with so
 much enthusiasm.       It seems to me, if I may say so, that
you have most admirably discriminated between the
effects produced on the imagination by different types of
scenery, and I was particularly struck with the justice of
your remarks on Macpherson.              I think you are quite
right in your judgment as to his manner of workmanship.
 He was a man with a real feeling for Nature, and felt the
meaning of the old fragments of Celtic poetry in their
relation to the landscapes about him ; on the two things
together he constructed
                               '
                                 Ossian.'     I like immensely
all that you say about Scott, whom I deify.          Wordsworth
 I am not enthusiastic about, except in places ; he is too
analytic for me ; but I fully admit the justice of his claim
to the high place you assign him among the philosophic
descriptive poets.     I may add that your own scientific
descriptions of scenery in the Lecture give me almost as
much pleasure as your poetical extracts. . . .
                                           W. J. Courthope.
    I wonder whether     any poet    will arise to celebrate my
                              "
own dear South Downs        !
    Another address was given in the autumn of 1898 at
the opening of the session of Mason University College,
                                                    "
Birmingham. Choosing the subject of                   Science in
Education," I took the opportunity to urge upon the
science students the unwisdom of undervaluing the older
or literary side of culture, and to point out the advantage
they would derive from cultivating it as a source of mental
refreshment, such as no branch of science can give.             Sir
John Lubbock, writing      to me in reference to this address,
                  " the so-called
remarked that                         Modern Sides at public
schools seem to me a mistake.         It is too early to differen
tiate ; and the two sides tend to go into extremes."           My
own experience    as one  of  the Governing Body of Harrow
School, led me to a similar conclusion.         It was therefore
with much satisfaction that twenty years after this time
(in 1 91 7) I saw the abolition of the Modern Side at that

 MODERN SIDE AT HARROW SCHOOL                              311
great seminary.     There will be at least as much science
taught there as before, probably a good deal more ; but
there will be no splitting of the school into two sections —
an arrangement which has been apt to lead the older or
classical side to disparage its younger associate.      Every
classical boy at Harrow is now taught the rudiments of
science, in order that he may have some conception of the
world in which he lives, and he is encouraged and given
the opportunity to pursue the subject into more detail, if
he shows special aptitude and zeal for it.         One of the
changes brought     about   by  the war  is the  extraordinary
impetus given to science-teaching.        At Harrow a com
plete reversal of the relative position of that subject and of
classics has taken place, so that if the two sides still
existed,   the Modern Side would far outnumber the
Classical.    The pendulum, to my thinking, has swung
too much to the opposite side, and it is to be hoped that a
more reasonable balance will eventually be secured.
   Time was found in these same two years for the revision
of half a dozen of my own publications of which new
editions were required.      These revisions included that of
the Scenery of Scotland, which was considerably recast,
with the addition of new maps and illustrations, and a
geological itinerary of the country ; that of the fourth
edition of the Text-book of Geology, which had been in
progress during the preceding seven years ; that of the
Class-book of Physical Geography, of which a completely
revised edition with new plates was now published ; and
that of the Field-Geology.       Besides these revisions the
Baltimore Lectures of 1897 were prepared for the press,
and were published as a small volume with the title of
Founders of Geology.      In writing these lectures I drew
attention more fully than any of my countrymen had done,
to the merit of some of the early French observers, who
had hardly received, even from their own countrymen,
the recognition which was their due.         The first edition
of  the  Baltimore  Lectures   was  soon  out  of print. The
amount of historical material collected in their preparation,
being much more than could be put into the compass of

31a         SORBY'S LAST RESEARCHES
the lectures as delivered, was made use of in the pre
paration of a second and much enlarged edition published
in 1905.
   In the spring of 1898 my last interview with my old
friend Henry Clifton Sorby took place.                    Although
we frequently exchanged letters, we now seldom met, as
he did not often leave his residence in Sheffield.               He
came to London in April, and from his hotel sent me a
                                 " I have
note in which he reported,                   brought with me to
show you some of the results I have obtained by the long
action of weak acids on sundry rocks, which are very
curious, and closely like the natural products due to
hundreds of years of weathering.           I shall be here for a
week."     The subject of research to which his active
and versatile mind had now turned was one that had
long interested me, and has been referred to in an earlier
chapter.    It was therefore with peculiar pleasure that I
saw how closely he had been able to imitate artificially
the effects of the age-long action of the acids in rain
and in the soil upon limestones and other rocks.                The
veteran father of modern petrography, now in his seventy-
second year, was still full of enthusiasm, and maintained
his markedly original manner of investigation.               I little
imagined   at that time  that in  the course    of  a few  months   I
would be called upon to record his death, and to write an
obituary notice of his lifelong work for the Proceedings
of the Royal Society.1
   The years with which the present chapter deals were
marked by a few events of public interest            In the summer
of 1899 the centenary of the Royal Institution was cele
brated by a banquet presided over by the Duke of
Northumberland,        President    of the Institution, and
attended by many        of the leaders in pure and applied
science in this country, together with a number of scientific
men from the Continent and the United States.                   The
Jubilee of Sir George Gabriel Stokes as Professor in
 Cambridge     University was celebrated in the same
summer, when a remarkable concourse of eminent men
                 lProc. Roy. Soc, B, vol. 80, 1908.

      BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DOVER                           313
 brought to Cambridge congratulations and good wishes
 from    colleges,   universities,  scientific  societies    and
 academies all over the Old World and the New.             I was
 the guest of J. W. Clarke, Registrary of Cambridge
 University, who in a letter sent to me shortly after the
                    "
 festival wrote : — From what I hear, most of our visitors
 took pleasure in the Jubilee of Sir G. Stokes, and I hope
 that the celebration may serve my poor University before
 the world.    We want a little of that puffing which Oxford
 understands so well, and can carry out so effectively."
    This same year the British Association met at Dover,
 under the presidentship of Professor Michael Foster.
 It was arranged that a contingent from the corresponding
 Association in France, which was holding its annual
 meeting simultaneously in Boulogne-sur-mer,              should
on one day of the week cross the Channel and fraternise
with us, while on another day we should return the visit.
 Our President, together with the Presidents of Sections,
went to the Dover quay to greet the Frenchmen on their
arrival.    It was amusing to see how nimbly Professor
Foster, in French fashion, kissed the French President
on both cheeks, before the latter could be sure which of us
was the British President.       The Council had nominated
me to preside over Section C, and my presidential address,
instead of being given at the beginning of the sittings,
was deferred until the following Saturday, when the
French Association was to visit us. I took for its main
         "
theme      Geological Time."       Entering upon a review of
the arguments of Lord Kelvin and others, I restated the
geological evidence in favour of a far higher antiquity for
our globe than that eminent physicist was disposed to
allow.     The address also alluded to the advantage which
would accrue to geology if numerical data were obtained
by instrumental observation and experiment, in the dis
cussion of many geological problems, and the subject
was illustrated by reference to several branches of enquiry
to which such actual measurements might be applied.
The audience included many Frenchmen, among them
the President of the Geological Society of France, who

 314     LORD AND LADY KELVIN IN ITALY
 seconded the vote of thanks to the President of Section C,
 which Lord Lister proposed.
     In 1899, by dividing my official holiday into three
 parts, I was enabled to pay two brief visits to the Continent
 and to enjoy a short yachting cruise round Ireland.       My
 wife and daughters, having spent the winter of 1898-9
on the Italian Riviera, had gone to Florence, where I
joined them for a few days in April. In the southward
journey, I was delighted to find at Modane Station Lord
 and Lady Kelvin fellow-passengers in the same train.
 We travelled together to Genoa and disembarked to
 spend the night there.      Next morning we took a drive
 along the heights, in order to have a wide view over city,
 harbour and sea.       Lord Kelvin had lately given his wife
 a photographic camera, the most perfect then obtainable,
and she tested its capabilities by devoting a number of
 plates to different parts of the landscape.      We had also
 time to look into one or two of the churches and the most
famous of the picture galleries.     We parted at Pisa, they
 going on to Rome and I to Florence.
     After a short but happy time with my family in Florence,
 I went on to Rome. In the summer of the previous year
 I had been elected a foreign member of the Reale
 Accademia dei Lincei, and I was glad to take an early
 opportunity of presenting myself. From school years
 onward a kind of romantic love of Italy had possessed me.
 Roman legend and history had first of all begotten that
 affection, which grew deeper as the beauties of Latin
 literature came to be more and more appreciated.          The
 feeling was still further fostered by the two visits to Italy
 in 1870 and 1873, which brought me under the spell of
 Rome and the Campania.         To be enrolled in the mem
 bership of the venerable Academy of the Lincei, which
 for some three centuries had held the torch of learning
 alight in Rome, was a privilege on which a high value
 could not but be set.
     An excursion was planned to Tivoli in order that Lord
 Kelvin might see the electric installation for lighting
 Rome, and I was invited to be one of the party.        It was

       GEOLOGICAL CONGRESS IN PARIS                     315
amusing to mark the care which the Italian engineers
took that their illustrious guest should not inadvertently
suffer injury.    They told off a man to keep near him
always, and watch that he did not put a finger on any
dangerous part of the mechanism.          He was of course
greatly  interested  in all the machinery, and as he some
times pressed forward and pointed with his outstretched
hand to some special mechanical contrivance, his guard
was ready on the instant to snatch back the hand, if it was
thought to be approaching too near danger.
   Later in the same year, as delegate from the Royal
Society, I attended the International Geological Congress
which met for a week in Paris, under the presidency of
Professor Gaudry, whose gracious manner and kindly
tact made everything go smoothly at the business meet
ings, which were more than usually interesting.          To
my admiration of the brilliance of Professor Gaudry's
palaeontological work, there was now added an increased
appreciation of his great personal charm.        His roomy
and picturesque house in the Rue des Saints Peres, with
Madame Gaudry as its attractive hostess, was the chief
centre of interest during the meeting.
   Having to make some communication to the Congress,
I took as its subject the desirability of promoting the
development of experimental geology.        This theme had
been briefly alluded to in the address to the Geological
Section of the British Association at Dover.      What was
said in that address had attracted the attention of some
French geologists, and had given rise to a correspondence
with them.     In a paper entitled, " De la co-opération
Internationale    dans   les Investigations   Geologiques,"
various directions were now suggested by me in which
such co-operation might be advantageously pursued.
The Congress appointed a Committee to consider the
whole question and to report to the next Congress, which
was to be held in Vienna in 1903.
   Among the various geological excursions planned to
take place at the close of the sittings, I chose that which
was to visit the volcanic region of Central France, under

316        PICNICS IN CENTRAL FRANCE
the leadership of M. Michel-Levy.           Though already
fairly familiar with that region, I looked forward with no
little interest to the discussion of its volcanic problems
with the French geologists who had studied and mapped
the ground.      Michel-Levy himself had devoted his great
petrological   acumen  to the study of the rocks, which were
at this very time being mapped in detail by Professor
Glangeaud of the University of Clermont Ferrand for the
Carte detaillie under Michel-Levy's direction.       Both of
these authorities were with us.        There were likewise
present Professor Lacroix, of the Jardin des Plantes in
Paris, with his wife, daughter of Professor Fouqué, and
her younger unmarried sister ; also Arnold Hague, my
kind host at Washington, and Mrs. Hague. We
climbed to the summit of Mont Dore, saw the famous
Puys well, and had some spirited discussions of volcanic
problems, which sometimes became nearly as warm as
the weather.      In the course of these argumentations I
realised more vividly than ever what a different view of
volcanic phenomena may be taken by the chemist or
petrographer, working at the subject only in his labora
tory, from the geologist who has studied these phenomena
in the field, not only at active volcanoes, but at those of
former geological periods where their internal structure
has been laid open by denudation.        But these somewhat
heated debates formed only more serious interludes in a
continued course of good humour and merriment, as we
drove or walked from point to point, lunching at little
country inns or halting for al fresco picnics at suitable
spots.     I remember that one of these open-air meals was
taken at the foot of the hill of Gergovia, whence Julius
 Caesar was driven back by the Gauls.        As we sat by a
cool spring and were thinking of the fighting that went
on there in Roman times, a toast to the immortal memory
of Vercingetorix, the Gaulish leader who defied Caesar,
was received with mingled amusement and sympathy by
the French part of the company.
     In the early summer of 1899 a letter reached me from
                                          " Alfred the Great
Henry Evans, in which he wrote :

          A CRUISE ROUND IRELAND                        317
says hewill turn up at Jura on Tuesday, 20th June, and
I hope you will do the same. You know we think of
steaming round Ireland.        He has been sorely plagued
with phlebitis, and I have urged that the less able he is to
walk about, the more is a ship to be desired. I don't
know in the world how we shall be able to feed ourselves,
but the Basking Shark is sometimes to be had in the West,
and an Octopus, of which the eye was 1 8 inches across,
has been taken there.        We hope the Aster will be a
little less kicklesome ; we are to weight her down deeper ;
she is rather skittish when very light in coal."
    To this cruise round the Emerald Isle I looked forward
with no little interest. In the course of some twenty
years, during which it had been my good fortune to make
acquaintance with most parts of the island, I had become
fairly familiar with both the geology and scenery of much
of its coast-line. But it is from the sea, rather than from
the land, that this scenery can be best seen and appreciated.
 I therefore welcomed this opportunity of renewing and
greatly widening my acquaintance with the varieties of
maritime landscape, which are perhaps more variously
displayed by the coasts of Ireland than by those of either
 Scotland or England.        No more favourable occasion
could have arisen ; for, as before, my kind host put the
yacht at my entire disposal, keeping as close to the shore
as I desired, and circling round any islet, or slowing down
 in front of any sea-cliff that I specially wished to look at
 more closely.     And as we always anchored for the night
 in some land-locked inlet, there were occasions when I
 could land, hammer in hand, if this was desirable.      The
 whole cruise furnished a memorable lesson on the influ
 ence of geological structure upon landscape, and the
varying results of marine denudation.
     The eastern coast of Ireland being more familiar to me
 from frequent visits to all parts of
                                    it,
                                      I    arranged to forego
 the pleasure of viewing it   from the sea with my nautical
 companions,     and to be  landed  at Waterford, whence  I
 went westward to Tramore to meet there Mr. M 'Henry,
in   order to examine the coast section to the west of that

 318          CAR ACCIDENT IN IRELAND
 place in connection with the revision of some of the maps.
 From that area we moved northwards for the inspection
of some of the ground in counties Wicklow and Wexford,
which had been revised, and where we were joined by Mr.
 Egan, another member of the staff.          While we were
engaged on this duty and driving in one of the usual open
 Irish cars, the horse took fright and the car was over
turned.     I was thrown out upon the road, with no visible
injury   ; my companions escaped with some bruises.       We
continued our work for a time, but before long the effects
of the shock so affected my head as to compel me to return
home.      Dr. David Ferrier, whom I consulted, insisted
that I must abandon all kinds of work for a little, and
                             "
strongly advised me to         go to Scotland and lie in the
bottom of a boat."     I followed his prescription by making
for my dear Western Isles, and spending a few restful
days, some of them literally in the bottom of a boat, at
Canna, with the laird of that island and his kindly family.
Thence I rejoined my Survey colleagues in the Oban
district, and had some interesting days in going over their
work with them among the volcanic rocks of the Old
Red Sandstone of Lorne.
     It was my intention that the year 1 900, the last of my
long connection with the Geological Survey, should be
spent in finishing, as far as possible, all the work that
depended immediately upon myself.          But this intention
could only be partially realised.      There had been for
some time dissatisfaction in the staff as to questions of
salary, travelling allowances, promotion, and other matters
which lay outside our own control, and which required
the consideration and concurrence of more than one
official department.     We now requested that a Com
mittee should be formed to enquire into our grievances.
After some delay a satisfactory Committee was appointed
with an experienced member of the House of Commons
as Chairman, and including representatives of our own
Department and of the Treasury, together with some
geologists of note from outside our ranks. The terms of
reference stated that the affairs of the Survey since 1 88 1

 COMMITTEE ON GEOLOGICAL SURVEY                           319
 should be enquired into ; in other words, that the whole
 period of my tenure of the post of Director-General
 should be reviewed.
    As the meetings of this Committee were held in the
 Museum, Jermyn Street, and lasted more than two
months, from the middle of May to beyond the middle of
July, I was necessarily detained in London during that
time.    Moreover, as the meetings were held in my room,
where all my papers and books were kept, progress with
the official literary work which I had undertaken was
 necessarily much impeded.      But the result of the official
enquiry was eminently satisfactory.       The recommenda
tions of the Committee's Report, if carried out, would
put the Geological Survey on a firmer footing than ever ;
the justifiable discontent of the younger members of the
staff would be removed, and the status of the seniors
would be improved.      It was to me a great satisfaction to
leave the service with the prospect that these much
needed reforms would be carried out.
    The prolonged detention at headquarters consumed
much of the time that would gladly have been spent in the
field.   As soon as attendance on the Committee was no
longer required, I crossed to Ireland and passed two
weeks with my colleagues there, partly in resuming the
work in Wexford which had been interrupted by the
unfortunate accident of the previous year.      Not without
regret did I bid good-bye to these pleasant friends, and
to active participation in the problems of Irish geology.
For nineteen years I had officially visited Ireland always
once, and sometimes twice, in the twelvemonth.           The
progress of the mapping, of the various revisions, and
of the examination of ground in connection with the
preparation of the explanatory memoirs had taken me
into almost every part of the island.      The geology, the
scenery, the antiquities and the people all interested me ;
and I can say with truth that in no part of my duties did
I find more pleasure than in those which took me to Erin.
    To Scotland I was able this year to pay two visits. The
first of these filled a few weeks in spring, which were

320        FINAL TOUR OF INSPECTION
passed chiefly in   Fife, for the purpose of completing the
materials in hand for the preparation of the two volumes
on the geology of that county.         As already mentioned,
the first volume was completed and published in June of
this year ; the second could not be finished before my
retirement; but it was issued to the public in 1902.
September and October were chiefly given to a farewell
tour of inspection round the whole staff in the field, from
the north of Inverness-shire into Skye, and thence through
the Perthshire Highlands.       Some remarkable discoveries
having recently been made by my colleagues in Arran, I
ended the tour by spending a week of great interest in
that island, the mapping of which had been nearly com
pleted by Mr. Gunn.          The fossil collector, Mr. A.
Macconochie, had come upon Rhaetic and Liassic shales
containing fossils, and also large.masses of hard white chalk
full of Cretaceous foraminifera.      It was found that these
fossiliferous strata had actually been preserved within a
large volcanic vent of Tertiary age.       They proved that
the Jurassic and Cretaceous deposits of Antrim once
extended into the south-west of Scotland.            It was a
curious coincidence that this tour of inspection, which was
practically my last work as a geologist in the field, should
have ended on the island that had been the scene of my
earliest geological essay.
   As the preparation of the Annual Report of Progress,
which would require some weeks for its completion, could
not be begun until after the end of the year, when the
various officers in the field had prepared and transmitted
their returns of work, the date of my retirement was
postponed from the 28th December, 1900 (my sixty-fifth
birthday), to 1st March, 1901. Accordingly, on the
latter date, retiring from the service in which I had spent
forty-four years and four months, I made way for my
successor, Mr. J. J. Harris Teall.        Of all the members
of the staff he was, in my opinion, the most eligible for
the appointment.       His scientific eminence, his business
capacity, his friendly relations and popularity with all his
colleagues marked him out for promotion,          I had there

              LETTER FROM             B. N.   PEACH            321
 fore no hesitation in pressing his claims on the Depart
 ment, and my recommendation was accepted.
     The regret with which I closed official relations with
 my colleagues was mitigated by the spontaneous expres
 sions of their friendly sympathy and kindliness.            I am
 tempted to quote here the letter that came from B. N.
 Peach, to whom frequent reference has been made in the
 foregoing chapters.        He had first come before me as
 one of the students at the Royal School of Mines, when I
 carried on the geological class during the disablement of
 Professor Ramsay.         He there showed such promise that
 in later years I welcomed him into the staff of the Survey
 in Scotland, where, as told in these chapters, he rose to
 high distinction.        His loyal service and his personal
 charm had made him one of my most cherished friends.
                         Edinburgh, 28th February,        1901.
     My dear Sir Archibald,
              I cannot allow the day to pass without writing
 to express my regret that our official connection ceases
 to-morrow.       I feel how much I am indebted to you, not
 only   for nearly all I know of geology, but for the constant
 support I have felt in having you as a friend.        I trust that
 this latter sense will long remain with me, and that as long
 as you are alive I shall still look up to you, and if I survive
you, I shall still have the sense of my obligation to you.
     I, too, feel that it will not be long ere I have to quit the
 service, which I shall do with regret ; for I feel that the
 life has been the most congenial one I could possibly have
lived, and you have done a lot to make me feel so.          When
 I have to leave, it will be source
                                a         of great satisfaction to
 know that the service has been much improved since I
joined, which has been brought about during your
administration.       The staff, too, has been immensely
 strengthened,     thanks   to your judicious choice of good
men.       It is stronger now than it has ever been. This
must be a great source of satisfaction to you, and must
help to mitigate the regret that you must feel at giving up
the helm ; also to know that you have delivered it over

322              A FAREWELL DINNER
to strong hands.      The prospects of the staff, too, have
been immensely bettered of late.
   There is one point of view, however, that must be more
cheering to you, and that is that you have got rid of the
great load of official worry, and that you will have time
now to use your unrivalled pen in more congenial work
than editing Summaries of Progress and such dryas-
dust work.       Long may you live to enjoy your well-
earned leisure, which I know you will employ for the
instruction and delight of others.
                    I am,  Yours sincerely,
                                            B. N. Peach.
   Among the letters received from abroad at this time
I  was specially touched by a most friendly address from
the geologists of Finland, with the signatures of      J. J.
Sederholm and Wilhelm Ramsay at the top of the list.
After expressing thanks and good wishes, they went on to
            "
hope that you will continue to give us, as some of your
great countrymen have done, the example of old age
superior to youth, not only in the maturity of judgment
but also in energy and perseverance."
    On 1st May, 1901, a complimentary dinner, with Lord
Avebury in the chair, was given to me, of which an
account appeared in Nature on the 9th of the month.
From this report a few sentences may be quoted :
    " The
            different public departments with which the
Geological Survey is most closely connected were well
represented, including the Treasury, Admiralty, Board
of Education, Local Government Board, Board of Agri
culture, Ordnance Survey, Scottish Education Office,
Stationery Office and British Museum.           There were
likewise present the professors of geology in London, Ox
ford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Dublin and Birmingham,
together with numerous other Fellows of the various
learned societies.     Letters, telegrams and addresses of
felicitation were received from all parts of Europe and
America.      The following telegram from Christiania was
                            '
read by the chairman :        Also from Norway's mountains

         ADDRESS FROM SURVEY STAFF                        323
an echo  of the cheers for the master of English geology —
                                                "
Brogger, Helland, Nansen, Reusch, Vogt.'
   One of the features of this gathering was the presen
tation of a beautifully illuminated address bearing the
signatures of the staff of the Survey in the three kingdoms.
My reply to the toast of my health closed with the follow
ing sentences   :
   "                                 Director-General I have
     During my tenure of office   as
been ever supported by the loyal and unstinted devotion
of the staff. It has been an honour and a pleasure to be
                                             —
placed at the head of such a body of men so enthusiastic
in their whole-hearted consecration to science, and so
unwearied and loyal in their efforts for the interests of the
service.   I feel sure that in no branch of the public
service could the esprit de corps be higher than it has been
among us.     You can well understand that it is impossible
without regret to sever one's connection with comrades
such as these.     At the end of my official career I can
truthfully claim to have striven to the utmost of my power
for the welfare of the staff, and for the scientific renown of
the service.    I have sought to secure the best men whom
it was possible to obtain, and I feel confident that the
Geological Survey, as regards the zeal, capacity and attain
ments of its members, may challenge comparison with
any scientific institution in any country of the world.      I
rejoice to think that the service is being now put on a
firmer footing than it has ever held before, that the pros
pects of pay and promotion have been lately broadened
and brightened, and that, under the guidance of my
distinguished friend and successor, the Survey may look
forward to a future even more illustrious and more useful
than its past."
   Abrupt severance from official duties which have
formed the daily routine of the greater part of a man's life
time is apt to leave him at what is popularly known as
                                                           "a
loose end."    At such an interval, it is a momentous advan
tage to be able to take up another congenial pursuit
which has long been familiar.         Every public servant,
knowing that he will be retired at sixty or sixty-five years

 324    RETIREMENT DEMANDS OCCUPATION
of   age, ought   during his official life to cultivate some
                       "
 study, vocation, or     hobby," which will profitably and
 pleasantly fill his time after retirement comes.       I have
 known   of  one such  functionary   who  became  the head of
 the department to which he had devoted his whole soul,
almost night and day, who lived entirely for his office, to
the neglect of other interests or occupations, and who, when
at last he retired, became one of the most miserable of
men, having nothing to do, and unable to make satis
factory use of the leisure that had now come to him.         A
man at sixty-five may still be in the prime of life, and even
for eight or ten years longer may be almost as active as
ever, both in body and mind.        He will find his salvation
in some suitable equivalent to replace the calling which he
has had to drop.
    It was fortunate for me to have more than one employ
ment which had been constantly, though intermittently,
pursued all through official life, and into which I could at
once throw myself with pleasure.       Geology was, of course,
as open to me, and       as  delightful as ever it had been,
though    the opportunities for pursuing it were now much
curtailed.    But it had been cultivated so incessantly since
boyhood that there was a kind of relaxation in turning
to other interests. More especially delightful was it to
betake oneself to literature, and to find, in that vast
domain, work and pleasure, in fuller amplitude than the
limited leisure of the Geological Survey had permitted.
Then there was the varied work of the active scientific
life of London, and the claims of the different Societies,
which few men, in the full current of official duty, can
attend to as they could wish.     And further, foreign travel
offers an inexhaustible field, when the retired official's
income suffices for its cultivation.
    In my case, however, the official fetters were not yet
wholly unloosed, and until at least some of them were
removed, it would be difficult to rearrange permanently
my daily life. The completion of the memoir on Eastern
Fife required that some portions of the district should be
carefully re-examined.      It was likewise necessary for me

          ASSOCIATION OF ACADEMIES                         325
to meet the members of the Survey staff who had been
selected for the preparation of the Memoir on the North
west Highlands.        A series of conferences with them at the
Edinburgh office of the Survey would be needed before
the general plan of the volume could be settled, and the
limits of each man's share of the description could be
defined.    It was obvious that it would be desirable for
me to remain in Scotland for some weeks, until this
important memoir was fairly launched.
   Before these arrangements could be finally adjusted,
an agreeable interlude gave me a few days in Paris.       The
Royal Society had nominated me one of a group of dele
gates to attend the first meeting of the International
Association of Academies which was to begin in the
French capital on 16th April. It was an important
gathering, for it had to organise this infant institution,
to define its scope, and to draw up its rules and regulations.
It had been created in the hope that if the academies and
learned societies of the civilised world could be brought to
work together for the advance of science, and especially
for influencing the various national governments towards
the support of scientific undertakings, their united voice
would have more weight than the counsel of the most
eminent society or academy acting singly.             The pro
ceedings throughout        the   conference  were   quite har
monious, and, largely owing to the tact and energy of
the President,     M. Darboux, Secrétaire perpétuel de
1'Academie des Sciences, they resulted in the construction
of an organisation which promised to be workable, and
likely to fulfil the desired aims.
   One of the most prominent and picturesque figures
at the meetings of this Conference was that of Professor
Mommsen. On my way along the quay to the opening
meeting, I saw an elderly foreigner, short in stature, clad
in a long dark coat that reached nearly to his heels, and
wearing a low soft felt hat from underneath which his
white locks streamed in the wind.          He stopped at fre
quent   intervals   to  gaze   around   him, and entered the
Palais de l'lnstitut immediately after me.          He turned

 326           PROFESSOR MOMMSEN
out to be no less a personage than the illustrious German
historian of Rome, then in his eighty-third year.         He
seemed to be aware         of the picturesqueness of his
appearance, for when a grave discussion was in progress
at a meeting of the Association, he would rise from his
seat in a conspicuous part of the room, and stand or walk
about, looking around the audience as if he would speak,
and Ihen resuming his seat in silence.        He came up
to me one evening, and in good English complained
that Germans were required to speak so many languages,
and that they were so little understood by foreigners
when they used their own tongue.
    The ninth jubilee or 450th anniversary of the Uni
versity of Glasgow took place this summer, and having to
be in Scotland, I had the pleasure of attending it.      The
festivities, which extended   over four days  in June,  were
excellently organised,     and  brought   together   a large
concourse of delegates from Universities and learned
Societies in many lands.      Beginning with an impressive
service in the fine Cathedral of St. Mungo, they included
the usual presentation of congratulatory addresses, the
conferring of honorary degrees, and profuse public and
private hospitality.    I found myself among the guests
who were honoured with the ancient degree of LL.D.
The opening of a new Botanical Institute in connection
with the Professorship of Botany attracted a distinguished
company, among whom were no fewer than three past-
Presidents of the Royal Society — Sir Joseph Hooker,
Lord Kelvin, and Lord Lister. In such assemblies
Principal Story was always one of the most conspicuous
personages.     His tall form, clad in his purple robe, his
noble head under an antique black velvet cap, and, above
all, his dignified bearing were eminently appropriate to
the president of a seat of learning.   His reserved manner
was combined with great courtesy and kindliness.
    After these doings in the west I made for the east coast,
and established myself at St. Andrews as the most con
venient centre from which to make the final examinations
of the ground that required to be visited, while at the same

            ST. ANDREWS AS A CENTRE                        327
time   I could correct the proof sheets of my last Summary
of Progress of the Survey, and be ready to attend any
conference at the Edinburgh office.       No nook of Scotland
is so well fitted for the literary recluse as this ancient city
by the sea.     Its bracing climate, its antique aspect, its
crowded traditions and crumbling ruins, going back to
the days of the Culdees, its varied and picturesque coast
line, its unrivalled golf-links, its admirable University
library, and its agreeable society combine to give it a
singular charm.      There can be no wonder that men like
Dean Stanley should love to escape for a while from the
whirl of the busy world to the restful quiet of this quaint
and venerable seat of learning.      It was in these favourable
conditions that I completed my last Survey Memoir, which
appeared later in the year in the form of an octavo volume
of 440 pages, illustrated with upwards of seventy cuts in
the text, twelve plates and a geological map of Eastern Fife.
The most novel feature of the book was the account of the
Volcanic Necks, embodying observations made in the
 course of many years, and presenting for the first time a
 detailed description of the structure of these orifices of
 eruption and their relations to the surrounding strata.
    While at St. Andrews, I was more than ever impressed
 with the almost unrivalled facilities offered by this centre
 and its surrounding district for demonstrating to students
 many of the fundamental principles of geology.          Never
 theless, though in possession of such unusual educational
 advantages, the University had never made any provision
 for utilising them.    Geology was not included as a dis
 tinct subject in its curriculum of study.      I had often dis
 cussed this deficiency with some of the professors, and on
 this occasion, before leaving the place, I wrote a formal
 letter to Dr. Donaldson, the Principal, strongly urging
 that some steps should be taken to turn to account the
 unique facilities of the place for the practical teaching of
 geology.     This letter met with a sympathetic reception,
 and two years afterwards a Lectureship of Geology was
 added to the teaching staff of the University.       Dr. Jehu
 in September 903 received the first appointment.
                 1

  328     FOURTH EDITION OF TEXT-BOOK
     In the course of this year my election as Foreign
 Member of the National Academy of Sciences, Washing
 ton, was intimated to me in a letter from Alexander
 Agassiz, who was about to retire from the office of Foreign
 Secretary and become President of the Academy.           Any
 fresh link that helped to attach me more closely to the
 great Republic of the West and its men of science was
 always welcome, and this further connection was made
 still more agreeable, coming as it did through the hands
 of the most eminent naturalist of the United States, who
 had for many years honoured me with his friendship.
 Another compliment which came from the Academy of
 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia gave me special pleasure
— the gold medal of the Hayden Memorial Geological
Award — for it connected me with my friend, F. V. Hay
 den, in whose memory the Award was founded.                 It
always seemed to me that he never in his lifetime received
from his fellow-countrymen the credit due to him for his
pioneer work in the geology of the West, and from time
to time I had brought his services to the notice of English
 readers.
    The year 1902 was in large part devoted to the pre
paration of new editions of my educational books.           In
particular, the publishers intimated early in the year that
the    third edition of the Text-book of Geology was not far
from being entirely sold out.      Ever since the publication
of that edition I had been quietly at work on the pre
paration of its successor.       Having now regained full
command of my time, and with access to all the scientific
libraries of London, I had brought the revision of the book
so far forward as to be able to supply the printers with
"
   copy." The additional matter of text and illustrations
for the fourth edition amounted to 300 pages.        For the
sake of convenience the treatise was now divided into two
volumes comprising in all 1472 pages, the pagination
being continuous throughout.         The revision and like
wise the printing of the work went on during this year
and the following spring, and the volumes were published
in the summer of 1903.

                     A WINTER IN ROME                           329
     On the 22nd of August, 1902, the centenary of the
 birth of Hugh Miller was celebrated at Cromarty, his
 native town.       A tall, gaunt pillar with a statue of him on
its top had already been erected there, as a tribute to his
memory, and it was round this monument that a large
company gathered on that day to inaugurate a Village
 Institute, as another and more useful memorial of him.
Being probably the only surviving geologist who had
known him well, I was asked to attend and to give an
address.         It was an opportunity, of which I gladly
availed myself, to place before the public Miller's claims
on the grateful remembrance of his fellow-countrymen,
and to give expression to my own indebtedness for his
friendship in my youth (ante, pp. 24, 34, 40, 58).            After
luncheon and a visit to the house in which he was born,
now partly converted into a museum containing many
relics of his life and work, the company re-assembled in
one of the churches of the town, from the pulpit of which
I discoursed for an hour on the hero of the day. This
Address, which had been prepared with some care, was
printed as a pamphlet for circulation among those likely
to be interested in its subject.1
    Having now no official ties that bound us to London,
and with all my educational books revised and in the press,
my wife and daughters agreed with me that we should
spend the winter of 1902-3 in Rome.                They preceded
me to Italy by some weeks and, on joining them in Decem
ber, I found them comfortably established in Rome, on
the uppermost floor of a hotel above the Piazza di Spagna,
whence a noble panorama of the city could be seen stretch
ing from the northern slopes of the Janiculan ridge to the
western limbs of the Alban Hills on the south.             Some of
our rooms opened on the roof, which was gay with pots
of flowering shrubs. Though in the very heart of the
"
   fumum et opes strepitumque Romae," we were so high
above them all, that only a distant hum reached our ears.
The months spent in the Eternal City were one continued
   1 It is included
                    among other papers in the volume on Landscape in
History.

33o     CHARM OF THE ROMAN CAMPAGNA
pleasure.    For myself, the correction of the proof-sheets
and the preparation of the indexes to the two volumes of
the Text-book of Geology for a time filled up the mornings,
while the afternoons were devoted to sight-seeing with the
family.   Thereafter, aided by the friendly assistance of
Commendatore Boni, Professor Lanciani, and the officials
of the British and American Schools at Rome, I studied
with some care the relics of pagan Rome.      Many a happy
hour was spent in the Forum, on the Palatine, and in the
Museums. In a succession of days we perambulated the
city, keeping outside the walls and as close to them as the
streets and houses would permit.      As the result of these
wanderings and studies, I no longer questioned the con
clusion which Gibbon so well expressed :
                                               " after Rome
has kindled and satisfied the enthusiasm of the classic
pilgrim, his curiosity for all meaner objects insensibly
subsides."
   The Campagna too was a source of infinite delight.
Its own mysterious charm captivated me.           To all its
human interest there was added, in my case, the varied
and endless fascination of its geological history.      That
wonderful volcanic plain has never had the story of its
birth and growth worked out in detail.          The Italian
geologists have, I think, not yet grasped how much
additional information they would gain in illustration of
that story, if they would carefully map its structure on a
large scale.     In the course of my wanderings across it
I made out roughly what seemed to me to be the principal
epochs in its growth.     Afterwards my observations were
embodied in an article to which allusion will be made on a
subsequent page.      But undoubtedly much remains to be
discovered by more detailed investigation.
   As a foreign member of the Accademia dei Lincei, I
used to attend the meetings of this ancient fraternity in its
spacious apartments in the Corsini Palace on the right
bank of the Tiber.     The Italian men of science were most
courteous and friendly.       With Count Ugo Balsani,
member of the Section of History and Historical Geo
graphy, I formed an acquaintance which had become a

                 ITALIAN GEOLOGISTS                       331
warm friendship as years passed.         He had married an
Irish lady, owner of some landed property in Ireland,
which after her death he visited every year, usually
spending a short time in London, where he was elected a
member of the Athenaeum Club.            He spoke and wrote
English more like a native Briton than a foreigner.     In my
attendances at the Corsini Palace one or other of the
Academicians was always particular that I should sign my
name as one of those present.      I did not at the time know
the meaning of this formality ; but it was explained later
when on my return to England, I received from the
Secretary a postal order for a few pounds, being so many
Italian lire for each meeting at which I had been present.
   The Italian geologists were also pleasant and helpful.
At the office of the Geological Survey I received every
assistance in consulting maps and the literature of the
geology of Rome and its surroundings.          Capellini came
sometimes to the capital, but I presumed that it was
chiefly his duties as Senatore del Regno that brought him.
He certainly never appeared once at the Lincei meetings
while I was there.       He came to see me, however, at
my hotel, and was then full of his cheery vivacity.       The
Italian geologist, who of all others impressed me most, was
Professor Fortis of the University of Rome, with whom I
had some interesting conversations.        He presented me
with   a copy   of his work   on  the  geology of Rome, an
excellent contribution from which I learnt much.           By
invitation of M. Boni we first met in the court of the Vestal
Virgins in the Forum, where the tooth of a hippopotamus
had just been exhumed from the volcanic tuff only a few
inches below the pavement which these Virgins trod.
   The apartments of the British School at Rome, under
the genial care of Mr. Rushforth, were open to me, and
at the American School I had some pleasant intercourse
with its Director, Mr. Norton.         These two seminaries
seemed to me most admirably fitted to stimulate the love
of art and of historical research among the young men and
women who come to continue their studies in the inspiring
atmosphere of Rome.         The same stimulating influence

 332         LESSONS FROM CARLANDI
 fanned into flame the artistic enthusiasm of Lucy, my
 eldest, and Gabrielle, my youngest daughter.       We were
 fortunate to secure for them the assistance of that great
 water-colourist, Carlandi, who gave them in the field
 lessons on the art of which he is so consummate a master.
 They accompanied him to many picturesque subjects
 inside and outside the city, sketching under his eye and
 current criticism, and watching from time to time the
 manipulation and progress of his brush as he simul
 taneously painted the same scene.
    The long stay in Rome, the familiarity which that stay
 had given me with the crowded relics of the pagan past,
and the inspiration of the genius loci rekindled my old
 enthusiasm for the Latin classics, which, though never
wholly displaced, had necessarily been relegated to the
 background in the midst of a life dedicated to the active
 pursuit of science.   But from this time onward, classical
reading and study took up an increasing part of my
attention with ever-growing delight.
    Before leaving Italy, I took the opportunity to pay
another visit to Naples.     Besides again spending hours
amid the treasures in the famous Museum, I saw the
latest excavations at Pompeii.      With great satisfaction
 I had the good fortune of going, somewhat more minutely
than ever before, over the volcanic area of the Campi
Phlegraei, guided by the talented young Italian geo
logist, G. de Lorenzo, who had made this ground his pro
longed study.     When we had finished our traverses I
pressed   him to write a paper on this famous district, which
I would communicate to the Geological Society of London.
He agreed to the request, and his paper, translated into
English, appeared in 1 904, in the sixtieth volume of the
Society's Quarterly Journal.
    We returned to England in the spring of 1903. It
was pleasant to reappear at the monthly dinners of the
Literary Society, which were remarkably well attended
and agreeable this summer.      Thus on 6th July the com
pany    numbered  twenty, including Sir Spencer Walpole,
the Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Goschen, W. E.

    SUMMER LIGHTNING AT MURREN                             333
 Lecky, Sidney Colvin, Andrew Lang, Sir Herbert Max
well, John Murray, E. H. Pember, Sir Theodore Martin,
George Darwin, Professor Jebb, Hubert Parry, Briton
Riviere, and Donald Mackenzie Wallace.             Martin was
more attractive than ever.
    The ninth International Geological Congress met this
year in Vienna.      Being Chairman of two of its Com
mittees, I attended it.    Instead of making straight for the
Austrian capital, I travelled by way of the Bernese Ober-
land in order to see my son who, not having been very
well, had been recommended to go to Miirren for a short
time.    While there with him, it was my good fortune to
witness, on the evening of 14th August, the most magni
ficent display of summer lightning I have ever seen.
Watching it for several hours with intense interest, I
took notes of its features, and next day embodied them in a
letter to Nature, which appeared in that journal on the 20th
of the same month. The chief facts noticeable were the
total absence of any audible thunder during the whole
evening, and the nearness and brightness of many of the
flashes.   They were unquestionably local manifestations,
and not reflections from distant lightning.         Sometimes
they appeared behind the opposite range of the Jungfrau,
which then stood out dark against them, but the most
vivid filled the valley in front of that range, which for a
moment was then brilliantly illuminated from base to
crest.
    The Congress at Vienna proved to be of the usual type.
Dr. Tietze ably presided, and my two reports — one, that
of the Commission on Lines of Raised Beach in the
Northern Hemisphere ; the other, that of the Commission
for International Co-operation in Geological Research —
were duly communicated. Such co-operation as I had sug
gested evidently required, for its effective realisation, much
more active sympathy and support than I had been able to
enlist.   The chief pleasure to me in the Congress was to
meet again the Austrian and Swiss geologists with whom
I had always been on the most friendly terms. Specially
agreeable was it to renew intercourse with my early

334                  EDOUARD SUESS
friend, Edouard Suess.        Though now past seventy years
of age, he was  still bright in mind, and fairly active in body.
I  breakfasted with him, and we had an interesting talk
about old times and old friends.       At the closing banquet
I was asked to speak, and took the opportunity to refer to
my first visit to Vienna, and the geologists then foremost,
almost all of whom had passed away except the veteran
Suess.    Towards the end of the speeches Suess rose,
evidently much touched by the various references to him
self. With some emotion he expressed his thanks for the
kind things that had been said of him and of his work,
concluding with an eloquent sketch of geological aims
and progress.     Another of the enjoyments of the Vienna
meeting was to find Zirkel there, as well and genial as ever.
The Swiss geologists were well represented by Baltzer,
Heim, and Lugeon, the French by Barrois and Haug.

                      CHAPTER XI
          SECRETARY OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY
                         ( 1 903-1 908)
 In the afternoon of 5th November, 1903, as I was writing
in the Athenaeum Club, the following telegram from the
                                           " Are
 Royal Society was put into my hands :           you willing
to be nominated for the office of General Secretary ?
Huggins."      There came also a note from the Assistant
Secretary informing me that the Council of the Society,
                     "
then in session, was   waiting for an answer by the bearer."
 It was a startling request.       The subject had however
been brought to my attention in the autumn of the previous
year by Professor Michael Foster, Senior General Secre
tary of the Society, who then told me that he proposed
to resign his office next year, and he wished to know
whether I would be willing to succeed him.         I replied
that having lately retired from official life, I rather
shrank from the idea of entering so soon upon it again in
another form, but that, as I was about to spend the winter
in Rome, I would fully consider the matter there and let
him know my decision when I returned, or sooner, if he
desired. When I came back from Italy in the spring I
met the Professor several times, but I left it to him to
renew his proposal.      During the stay in Rome I had
fully considered it.     There could be no doubt that
the cessation of my position in the Geological Survey
would leave a large measure of free time at my disposal.
The four years of experience in the affairs of the Royal
Society, gained when Foreign Secretary, had shown me the
inner working of that important body in which I would be
                               335

336    SECRETARY OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY
glad to share, and for which I would now have ample time.
I had therefore decided to accept the Secretaryship, if
asked by the Council.     But as during our occasional inter
views, Professor Foster never alluded to the subject, I
could see that he had evidently found another candidate.
I therefore dismissed the subject from my thoughts. The
President's telegram was thus a complete surprise to me ;
but, having already made up my mind, I had no hesitation
in at once replying affirmatively,
                                     "
                                       by the bearer."
   Great pressure was immediately brought to bear on me
to retire in favour of an eminent physiologist, supported
by Professor Foster and a number of other biologists.
But I had accepted the nomination of the Council, and
was in their hands.    At the anniversary on the following
St. Andrew's Day I was duly elected Secretary by a
majority of some three to one.
   During the first two centuries of the Royal Society's
existence, no limit was fixed to the length of time during
which its officers might be continued in their respective
positions.    Each of them might be re-elected at the
Anniversary, year after year, for an indefinite period.
Thus, the first President held office for fourteen years,
Samuel Pepys for two years, and other successors for only
a single year.   The longest tenure of the office was that
of Sir Joseph Banks, who occupied the chair for forty-two
years, from 1778 till his death in 1820.         About thirty
years ago,  however,  the  Council   made   a regulation that
the officers should not hold their respective offices beyond
certain limits of time.    The tenure of the Presidentship
was fixed at five years, the General Secretaryship at ten
years, and the Foreign Secretaryship at four years.
   For the next ten years the business of the Royal Society
formed my chief occupation.        This change of employ
ment, though on the whole most agreeable, could not
but bring with it some regrets.       Chief of these was the
cessation of the open-air life, and constant active participa
tion in geological field-work.     Yet it was doubtless well
that this deprivation should come before failure of bodily
strength would compel retirement.         And in truth, the

        DUTIES OF THE SECRETARYSHIP                       337
regret was not a little mitigated by the sense of unwonted
freedom, when all the former ties and trammels of
officialdom were ruptured, and I could devote my
increased leisure to pursuits of my own choice, especially
to studies which, though dear to me, I had never found
time enough to cultivate.       Resident in London, and now
honoured with an important post in the very heart of the
scientific life of the country, I could see another wide field
of work opening before me, and I entered it full of
hope and ardour.       Looking back into the past from the
advanced old age of to-day, I incline to believe that the ten
years on which I now entered were not the least enjoyable
section of my life.
    Having already had the experience of the Foreign
Secretaryship, I was soon able to master the details of the
duties of the new post.       There are two General Secre
taries, one who looks after the physical sciences, while the
other (who was now myself) takes the biological side.       As
in the case of other Societies which hold meetings for
the reading and discussion of papers communicated by
members, a large part of the work of the Secretaries is
concerned with arrangements for the meetings, trans
mission of the papers to referees, and the printing,
illustration and publication of the approved papers.        As
the Royal Society, representing the whole domain of
" natural                    welcomes contributions      from
              knowledge,"
every branch of science, this department of the secretarial
duties is particularly important and onerous.         For the
proper    consideration  of the  papers it has been necessary
to create eight Sectional Committees, each consisting of
Fellows who are recognised authorities in one branch or
division of science.     With these Committees the General
Secretaries closely co-operate in regard to the reading and
publication of papers.      Other Committees deal with the
domestic affairs or the Society, such as Finance, the Library,
and the administration of a Fund for affording relief to
necessitous men of science or their families.
    But over and above what may be regarded as the
administration of its own proper affairs, the Royal Society
     A.G.                       y

338       SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
has always been applied to by the various Departments of
State for advice in matters wherein science is concerned.
It has played, and continues increasingly to play, the part
of scientific adviser to the Government of the day. In
my time the War Office, the Admiralty, the Home Office,
the Colonial Office, and other Departments referred to the
Society for advice, and in some cases the Society was
induced to undertake, for the public good, researches of a
difficult and protracted kind, such as the investigation of
the cause and treatment of sleeping sickness, Malta fever,
glass-workers' cataract, and other diseases.          In later
years, especially during   the  War, the  Society,  I  believe,
has been of still greater utility.
    Besides applications from Departments of State, which
arise from time to time, the Society has undertaken for
the Government other duties of a more permanent nature.
Thus, it has been entrusted with the distribution of an
annual Parliamentary grant for the encouragement and
support of research, and in order to secure due attention
to the claims of the whole range of science, it has instituted
seven Boards, each representing one great division of
natural science.    These Boards consider the applications
for financial assistance from this grant. Again, the
National Physical Laboratory was devised and built up by
Fellows of the Royal Society until it became too vast an
institution to be managed and financed by a scientific
Society, and was then put under a Department of the State.
Greenwich Observatory has from the first been placed
under the wing of the Society, and its Board of Visitors
has the President as its Chairman.
   The premier position of the Society in this country, as
representative of the whole domain of science, has been
recognised in the efforts which have been made towards
international action in furtherance of scientific work.
In the foundation and working of the International
Association of Academies the Royal Society took an active
part, from the start of that Association in 1901 until the
meetings ceased on the outbreak of the Great War.
Throughout its history the Society has been in corres

      SIR  WILLIAM AND LADY HUGGINS                      339
 pondence with foreign Academies and Universities, and
 this connection is now closer than ever.     Personal con
 tact with the men of science in different lands, always
 cultivated from the very beginning, has now grown more
 intimate, not only by welcoming them to this country but
 by sending delegations to meetings abroad.       As one or
 other, sometimes both of the General Secretaries may
 be sent on these missions, the duties of the Secretaryship
 are not only numerous, but of a singularly varied and
 interesting kind.
    The officers whom I now joined in the innermost
 executive circle of the Royal Society were all old friends.
 Sir William Huggins proved to be a most kindly and help
ful President, with whom it was always a pleasure to be
associated.    Necessarily I saw much of him at Burlington
 House, and also at his quaint home on Tulse Hill. He
and Lady Huggins were in many ways a singularly
picturesque pair.      Their strong mutual attachment,
which showed itself in many little courtesies and atten
tions, gave a tone to all their relations with the world
outside.    The old-fashioned formality of manner, so
markedly, but so differently, shown in each of them, was an
outward manifestation of their love of order, neatness, and
precision.    They shared each other's life with a fulness
as rare as it was beautiful to see, for this comradeship
extended into the domain of science, where in the abstruse
and delicate investigations in which her husband was a
pioneer, Lady Huggins took her place at his side, not
only with untiring devotion, but with the helpful sym
pathy of one who was competent to share in his work.
Moreover, she loved literature and had some skill in art,
using brush, pen, and pencil ; as her friends used to
realise in the pretty etchings and water-colour drawings
which she sent to them at Christmas.
    The Treasurer, Alfred Bray Kempe, barrister and
mathematician, much impressed me as an excellent man of
business, with a sound judgment, great tact, and endless
good nature.      I soon became much attached to him ;
eventually  also to his wife and children.   My colleague,

 34Q     SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
 Joseph Larmor, who now became Senior Secretary, is a
 Fellow of St. John's College and Lucasian Professor of
 Mathematics at Cambridge, and for some years was one
 of the two Members of Parliament for the University.
 Though probably the foremost mathematician in the
 country, he is by nature so modest and retiring that the
 general world does not know half his worth.               From
 the very first I was instinctively drawn to him ; we soon
 became close friends, and cemented our friendship not
 only by the most cordial co-operation in our secretarial
 work, but subsequently by travel together in Italy. The
 Foreign Secretary, Francis Darwin, a younger son of
 the illustrious naturalist, was an accomplished botanist
 whose gentle kindly ways greatly endeared him to his
 colleagues, while his sound judgment was always a
 support to them.
    These five officers, President, Treasurer, two General
 Secretaries, and Foreign Secretary, form the executive
 centre of the Council.      They prepare the business to be
 considered at each meeting of Council, and carry out the
 decisions then taken.     There could not have been a group
 of colleagues with whom collaboration would have been
 more agreeable.     There was also a capable subordinate
 permanent staff".
    As I now lived in London, it was possible for me to spend
 a part of each day at the Society's rooms, and I soon found
 the work so varied and so attractive as to become a source
 of continued pleasurable employment.          I held the office
 of General Secretary for five years.    The first two of these
 coincided with the last two years of the Presidentship of
 Sir William Huggins, who retired from office on St.
 Andrew's Day, 30th November, 1905. I found on
joining the Council that Sir William, though in his
 eighty-third year, still retained not a little of his vigour of
body, and seemingly all his alertness of mind.          He was
 scrupulous   in his attendance at the Council.         Even in
his last year of service he missed only one meeting, and
would not have failed then, had not his coachman reported
 London to be lying under so dense a fog that a journey to

     SIR    WILLIAM AND LADY HUGGINS                      341
Burlington House was not to be thought of. His keen
interest in the affairs of the Society led him to write many
letters to me, giving his opinion on questions that arose.
It  was   interesting to compare and contrast his hand
writing with that of his wife, as indicative of character.
His letters, always courteous and kindly, were expressed
in the formal and precise style in which he used to
speak, and were written in a rather small caligraphy
which always seemed to be just the kind of penmanship
which his conversation would lead one to expect.         Lady
Huggins wrote a larger, more irregular, yet on the whole,
rather a more legible hand, with bold capitals and florid
twistings, as if the pen could hardly be kept quiet enough
to express the thoughts, feelings, and enthusiasms that
were eager to take shape in words.              The contrast
between the two styles of handwriting was sometimes
strikingly displayed when she added a postscript to her
husband's letter.      I have preserved a note of the Presi
dent's dated 8th September, 1905, dealing with the
Society's business, and penned in his usual somewhat
cramped hand and formal style. To this note his wife
added a much larger postscript, in penmanship more
florid than usual, for she had to tell that she had recently
been staying at Abbotsford, where she had been privileged
to occupy Sir Walter's own private rooms.         I look back
with peculiar pleasure on the afternoons spent with them
on Tulse Hill, a pleasure sometimes shared with my wife
and my daughter Lucy.
   Lord Rayleigh became President on St. Andrew's Day,
1905.     He had already served as one of the General
Secretaries for eleven years, from 1885 to 1896, and was
thus intimately acquainted with the work of the Royal
Society. His quiet dignity of manner, his kindly courtesy,
his sound judgment, his wide range of acquirement, and
his distinguished place among the physicists and mathe
maticians of the day admirably qualified him for the office.
He was complete master of the business of the Council,
and conducted it with admirable tact.            He loved a
country life,   and  in  his charming   rural home   in Essex

  342     SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
 he    combined the pleasures of farming with those of
  physical research, which he carried on there in a modest
 little laboratory with the simplest apparatus.       His death
 in 1 9 1 9 deprived science of one of its most illustrious
 students, and one of its stoutest champions.
     Among the occasional engagements of the Royal
 Society, one of much interest occurred soon after the
 beginning of my Secretaryship.             London had been
 selected as the place at which the second meeting of the
 International Association of Academies was to be held
 in May 1904.       For months previously a good deal of
 correspondence     was   carried on with foreign Societies,
 especially with the Academy of Sciences in Paris, where
 the first meeting had been held, as narrated in the fore
going chapter. As the day of the assembly drew near
an unwonted buzz filled the quadrangle of Burlington
 House ; voices in French, German, and Italian resounded
in the lobbies and rooms of the Society.             The multi
tudinous arrangements that required to be carefully
planned, so as to ensure the smooth working of the con
ference, necessarily threw much work on the officers and
subordinate staff.     Of this work, perhaps the most exact
ing and vexatious part was connected with the hospitalities
to be provided for the visitors.         For weeks beforehand
an active interchange     of letters  took  place with the dele
gates deputed by the various foreign academies to repre
sent them at the conference.           An important piece of
information had to be       obtained    from each of them : —
whether the visitor was coming alone or would be accom
panied by wife or daughter.          Answers were received to
most of the enquiries, though not always with the
promptitude desirable.        A few never replied. When
they came as bachelors, their silence was of no conse
quence ; but when they unexpectedly arrived with wives
or daughters for whom no provision had been made,
some effort, and not a little tact, were needed in order to
                                                                '
satisfy everybody.      One delegate taxed our patience by
bringing both his    wife  and his daughter.
    The functions provided for the entertainment of our

        PRINCE OF WALES ENTERTAINED                     343
 visitors included a garden party at Windsor Castle, where
 a reception of the members of the International Associa
 tion was held by King Edward and Queen Alexandra.
 The foreigners one and all were delighted with Windsor,
 and expressed their surprise to find Queen Alexandra
 still so young and so good-looking.
    The Prince of Wales (now King George V.) having
 expressed a wish to make the personal acquaintance of
 some leading men of science, a private dinner at the
 Athenaeum Club was arranged for nth May, 1904, at
 which past-Presidents of the British Association and a
 few others were present.         The Prince, who seemed
 thoroughly to enjoy himself, chatted with small groups of
 us after dinner.    With his private Secretary, Sir Arthur
 Bigge (now Lord Stamfordham), who sat next me at
 the table, I had much conversation.     He impressed me
 strongly  with his ability and charm.  I could not but feel
 that the Prince was fortunate in having so capable and
 pleasant a right-hand man at his side.   And the same able
 Secretary remains with him still, amid the manifold
 labours and engagements of the Throne.
    In the spring of 1905 the Secretaries of the Royal
 Society took part in an interesting ceremonial — the cele
 bration of the hundredth birthday of the distinguished
 Manuel Garcia, inventor of the laryngoscope, which has
proved of such high value in the investigation of the voice
and of diseases of the throat.      The venerable musician
had been long settled in London as a teacher of music.
He was able to attend the celebration of his centenary and
to receive numerous addresses, not only from medical
institutions, but from learned societies at home and
abroad.     One of these addresses was from the Royal
Society.    Garcia lived for more than a year longer.
    As already mentioned, it not infrequently happens
that the officers of the Royal Society are appointed as
delegates to represent the Society at Congresses or other
meetings abroad.      An instance of this kind occurred in
May 1 907, when the Society was invited to send delegates
to Upsala and Stockholm for the celebration of the two

344      SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
hundredth    anniversary of the birth of Linnaeus.        The
Foreign Secretary, Francis Darwin, and myself were
chosen delegates.     We travelled to Sweden together,
and at the end of a pleasant journey reached Upsala on
the evening of 22nd May.
   The Swedes are proud, as they have every right to be,
of their great Linnaeus.     At this anniversary of his birth,
after the lapse of two hundred years, their respect for him
was probably greater than ever, and they were evidently
pleased that so large a company, from universities and
learned societies in all parts of the world, had come to his
native land to do honour to his memory.          Their regard
for him showed itself in many forms.        I was particularly
struck with the use they made of the pretty little northern
flower, Linnaea borealis, which perpetuates his name.       In
the illustrated ws««-pamphlet prepared for the great
dinner given by the University on the second day,
conventional wreaths of this plant depicted in natural
colours adorned the pages.      I was the guest of Professor
Quensel, and on my dressing-table I found a delicate
spray of Linnaea, which I have kept with other souvenirs
of the celebration.
   It was interesting to see how conspicuous a part the
students, male and female, took in the festival.         They
were early astir, and with their banners and sashes added
much to the life and gaiety of the streets.     The quiet old
town was further enlivened by the variously shaped and
coloured academic robes of the delegates from academies
and universities in all corners of Europe.      The old King
was unable, from failing health, to appear on the scene
(he died only a few months later) ; but his place was
worthily filled by the Crown Prince, now King Gustaf V.
Prince Eugen likewise took a gracious part in the festival.
   A long procession, headed by the grand banner of the
                                  "
students, and their various         nations," each with its
distinctive banner, followed by the University authorities
and the delegates from abroad in their various costumes,
marched slowly to the picturesque thirteenth century
Cathedral for the ceremony of conferring honorary degrees

    UPSALA— CONFERRING OF DEGREES                         345
on   the guests.    At this function, which lasted a con
siderable time, it was interesting to find that some customs
have been preserved at Upsala which have long dis
appeared    from our University procedure.           Foremost
among    these   antique usages   came    the  putting of tall
black hats, not unlike those of the traditional costume
of women in Wales, on the heads of those delegates on
whom the doctorate of theology was conferred.             The
graduands     in  philosophy   were  each    crowned   with  a
wreath of laurel leaves, and on his left hand was placed
a gold ring having his name engraved inside.          We were
a somewhat motley company as, after the close of the
proceedings, we dispersed among the general crowd.
The doctors of divinity were especially conspicuous,
while the doctors of philosophy, with their unusual
headgear and carrying their hats in their hands, were
hardly less prominent.
    While to the Upsala University, at which Linnaeus was
a student, and afterwards, for many years, its most renowned
professor, the chief part in the celebration of his anniver
sary was naturally assigned, the Royal Swedish Academy
of Sciences could not be denied some share in the national
tribute to its most celebrated member.          The delegates
accordingly repaired on the 25th to Stockholm, where
fresh congratulations were offered amid further festivity.
To the English delegates, a pleasing incident in the pro
ceedings was the award of the Academy's Linnaean
medal to our distinguished fellow-countryman, Sir Joseph
Hooker, and the appreciative language in which the
President of the Academy made the presentation.            Sir
Joseph at his great age could not travel to Sweden ; the
medal was therefore placed in the hands of the British
Ambassador for transmission to England.
   At Stockholm the Swedish Royal Family took a still
more active part in the festivities.     I was more especi
ally impressed by the charm of Prince Eugen, who to his
other gifts adds a high artistic talent which has given
him a foremost place among the Scandinavian painters.
Renewing a conversation which we had begun at Upsala

346      SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
on the fine arts in Sweden, he invited Mr. Darwin and me
to his picturesque home, a little out of Stockholm, where
we saw in his studio a number of his own works.     And that
we might have a fuller appreciation of northern art, he
drove us to the house of a wealthy citizen of Stockholm
who possesses the best collection of the modern Swedish
school.    In the absence of the owner, the Prince piloted
us from room to room, and kindly answered our many
questions about the subjects and the artists.   It was to me
a memorable revelation of the scope and characteristic
"              "
   technique      of the Swedish school of painters. When
we returned later in the day to our hotel each of us found
a copy of the large folio volume of Svenska Lan<Jskap,
consisting of reproductions of the Prince's paintings of
Swedish scenery.        Inside my copy was the inscription
of my name
                " in remembrance of the Linné days, 1907.
Eugen." The Duke of Skania (now Crown Prince)
was likewise indefatigable in his attentions to the dele
gates.    At the reception in the Palace, Napoleonic times
were forcibly recalled, when one was introduced to per
sonages still known by the name of Bernadotte.        To the
kind attention of Sir Rennel Rodd, the British Ambas
sador, my colleague and I were indebted for a pleasant
little dinner in the beautiful grounds of the Djurgard
outside Stockholm.        A fourth member of this party was
Prince Roland Buonaparte, whom I had long known in
Paris, and whose presence maintained the Napoleonic
associations of the place.
    In the autumn of this same year I received the following
letter from the Prime Minister, and was much at a loss to
guess what had prompted his action :
                   10  Downing Street, Whitehall, S.W.,
                               5th August, '07.
            Secret.
    Dear S1r Arch1bald Ge1k1e,
            It will give me great pleasure if you will allow
me to submit your name to the King for the honour of
K.C.B. If you accepted there would be an occasion for

    THE HONOUR OF                K.C.B. CONFERRED           347
 conferring the honour at a meeting of the Privy Council
 on 1 2 th inst.
     This is of course quite private until His Majesty's
 pleasure is taken.
                          Yours very truly,
                                 H. Campbell Bannerman.
     On Monday afternoon, 12th August, I duly appeared
 at Buckingham Palace.          There was a crowd of ministers
 and other Privy Councillors in the ante-chamber, all
 talking in groups, interrupted by occasional messages
 from an inner room where the King sat.           His Majesty
was obviously impatient.          I was told he had another
appointment       after the   Council, and wished things to be
 pushed on.       I heard him shout my name from his apart
ment, and I was immediately hurried into his presence.
 He was sitting in an easy chair. The insignia of the
 Knight Commander of the Bath were handed to him,
which he fixed on my breast as I knelt on one knee upon a
stool in front of him.          He murmured a few words, of
                            "
which I only caught           long and distinguished service."
The ceremony was over in two minutes. Before I had
reached the door in retiring, His Majesty was calling
lustily for the next business.
    Among the many telegrams, letters and cards which
came to me with congratulations, I was more especially
touched by those sent by one or two of my former students
in the geology class at the Edinburgh University.         From
the letter of one of these faithful friends, who has risen
into eminence in the Civil Service, I may quote two
                 "
sentences : — I write mainly as one of your old students
who, in common with very many of his fellows, owes to
your instruction, your kindly guidance and your inspira
tion, a capacity for enjoyment in the field which is a
permanent spring of happiness.          May you enjoy for many
years this new visible token of appreciation, as well as
your now long-standing reward — the knowledge of good
work well done."
    In the organisation of national exploring expeditions,

 348      SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
from at least the time of the voyages of James Cook in       the
eighteenth century, the Royal Society has taken an active
and useful part.      The Arctic and Antarctic explorations
of the last hundred years, and the great voyage of the
Challenger, have usually been suggested by Fellows, and
have always been effectively assisted by the Society as a
body in concert with the Admiralty.            In recent years,
together    with  the Trustees   of the  British Museum, the
Society has also superintended the publication of the
scientific observations made in these explorations.            It
happened      that  during my Secretaryship,      the  National
Antarctic Expedition (i 901-1904) completed its work
and brought home a large amount of material, not a little
of which was placed in the hands of the Royal Society to
be co-ordinated, edited, and prepared for the printer.         A
full share of this editorial work fell to me.        I found it
replete with interest, and it had the added attraction that
it placed me on a close and friendly footing, not only with
Captain Scott but with several of his brave companions.
More especially intimate were my relations with Dr.
E. A. Wilson, the junior surgeon and admirable artist
of the Expedition.       I am proud to have assisted him in
the preparation of the Album of Photographs and Sketches,
forming a massive quarto volume containing one hundred
and sixty-five plates and accompanying text, together
with a Portfolio of Panoramic Views.       These two volumes
were published by the Royal Society in 1908. They
furnish a vivid presentation of the landscapes and other
features   of the Antarctic regions.
    Among various offices outside the Royal Society which
were filled by me during five years of the Secretaryship,
one   of the most pleasant was membership        of the Science
Scholarships Committee of      the Royal Commission for the
Exhibition of 1851. The        signal financial success of that
first and greatest of all the industrial Exhibitions which
have been held in this country, left in the hands of the
Royal Commission a large sum of money, part of which
was invested in the purchase of land lying to the south of
Hyde Park. Over this land, streets and residences have

ROYAL COMMISSION OF EXHIBITION                                  349
since been erected, with the consequent growth of a large
income to the Commission.          A portion of this revenue
is devoted to scholarships and bursaries which are open to
students who desire to prosecute science as a calling, and
who are recommended by universities in this country and
in the Dominions.        These appointments have been the
means of enabling many young men to start on successful
careers, and in some cases to rise to eminence as original
investigators and discoverers.       The Chairman of the
Committee,    when    I  joined  it,was   my old and valued
friend, Sir Henry Roscoe, and no one could have filled
the post with more tact and energy.        I  had been a  mem
ber of the Committee for     a  few years when on 3rd June,
 1908,I   received  from   Sir Arthur  Bigge an official letter
informing me that the Prince of Wales (now King
George) desired to recommend me for election at the next
meeting of the Royal Commission as          a permanent mem
ber of the Commission to fill the vacancy caused           bythe
death of Lord Kelvin.        I   was thus admitted into the
administration of this important and beneficent trust,
which has been able to advance the cause of education,
not only       by
                its annual subvention to the Scholarships
Committee, but      by  large donations to such institutions
as the Imperial College of Science and Technology and
the British School at Rome.
    When the Imperial College of Science and Technology
was incorporated by Royal Charter      in   1907,
                                                I   was named
one of the Governing Body, and took much interest                in
the organisation of this important seminary.          The first
Rector having unfortunately to        retire  owing  to  failing
health,I    was nominated one of       a  small Committee to
seek for suitable successor to the appointment.
           a                                            During
my close connection with the Tropical Diseases Committee
of the Royal Society     I   had been greatly struck       bythe
remarkable success with which the Royal Army Medical
College, in Grosvenor Road, had been planned and fitted
out   by   Sir Alfred Keogh.         Having heard that,          if
approached on the subject, he might not be unwilling
to undertake the somewhat similar task for which we

 3 so    SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
 were seeking a capable head, I strongly urged that
 the Committee should consider his qualifications.      As the
 result of their enquiry they proposed his name to the
 Governing Body as the next Rector.       The proposal was
 eventually accepted and Sir Alfred Keogh was appointed.
 The choice proved a signal success. The new Rector
 speedily won the entire confidence of the staff of professors
 and teachers by his tact and sympathy, and his evidently
 keen desire to further the advancement of the College as
 an important educational institution.   After the outbreak
 of the Great War, his ability was so well recognised at
 the War Office, that his services were borrowed by that
 Department.     He was made Director-General of the
whole Medical Service of the Army — a laborious post
 which he filled with success for several years, until the
 Governing Body of the College asked to have him back
again to look after the interests of their institution.
    In the midst of these activities the greatest man of
science in our time passed away ; Lord Kelvin died on
 17 th December, 1907.     There was a general desire that
he should be buried in Westminster Abbey, and the
Royal Society was able to assist in the arrangements for
his funeral there on the 23rd of that month.     It was a day
of unusual darkness. The ordinary dim religious light
of the venerable building was deepened into a solemn
gloom, amidst which a large and notable company assem
bled to pay the last tribute of respect to the illustrious
philosopher.    The pall-bearers, twelve in number, in
cluded representatives of some of the chief Societies and
Institutions with which he had been most closely associ
ated.   Amid the mournful tolling of the funeral bell, the
procession moved slowly through the darkness to the
grave prepared near that of Sir Isaac Newton. And
there, in the hallowed sanctuary where lie the remains of
so many generations of our greatest and best, we laid to
rest all that was mortal of one who was not more
reverenced for his towering genius and his manifold
achievements in science, than he was beloved for the rare
modesty, simplicity, and goodness of his character.        As

      BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN                        351
we walked back from the        Abbey to the Royal Society's
rooms, my colleague, Professor Larmor, made a remark
to me which brought vividly to the mind the greatness of
Kelvin, as judged by one of the most eminent of the limited
                                                        " Con
number of judges competent to form an estimate.
                    "
ceive," he said,      a perfectly level line drawn from the
summit of Newton's genius across all the intervening
generations ; probably the only man who has reached it in
these two centuries has been Kelvin."
   The British Association for the Advancement of Science
met in Dublin in the year 1908, under the Presidentship
of Francis Darwin. It was in many ways an enjoyable,
as well as useful, meeting.      To me the week was made
additionally agreeable by my being lodged at the Deanery
of St. Patrick's under the hospitable roof of Dr. Bernard,
who since then has been Bishop of Ossory and Archbishop
of Dublin, and who has now returned to his Alma Mater
as Provost of Trinity College, Dublin.           Amid all the
charms of cultivated society, never more delightful than
in the Emerald Isle, I often found my thoughts during
this visit back in reverie amid the scenes of Swift's life
within these same walls. A good memory may be
quickened, and the appreciation of an author may be
stimulated by actual residence in the home where he
lived and wrote.       The chequered career of the great
humorist seemed at times to rise up before me as I sat
                "                                            "
where he as       Dean, Drapier, Bickerstaff or Gulliver
for half a lifetime wielded the pen of the greatest man of
letters in his day.
    It was a great gratification to all his many friends to
see the modest, retiring Francis Darwin in the Chair of
the British Association.       He gave an opening address
full of suggestiveness. At its close I was asked to
second the vote of thanks to him.       In doing so I pointed
out how much help Charles Darwin had it in his power
to obtain from his group of gifted sons.      If there was any
question of physics     on which he needed light, he could
apply   to  George,    who   stood in the forefront of the
physicists of his time.      If he desired assistance in any

352      SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
botanical investigation, Francis was at his side in a
moment.      If he needed any piece of apparatus to be
devised and constructed for his biological enquiries,
Horace was an accomplished mechanician ready at hand.
Or if ever he had a question of finance to consider, his
banker son William was abundantly qualified to advise
him.
    Although the duties of the Secretaryship of the Royal
Society took up a large part of my time, they did not
prevent an active participation in the work of some of the
other Societies and Institutions with which I was con
nected.    Foremost among these bodies was the Geological
Society of London, to which, as already mentioned, I was
bound by long years of friendly association.          In the
winter of 1903-4 the President, Professor Lapworth of
Birmingham University, was disabled by illness from
discharging the duties of his office.   As one of the Vice-
Presidents I was asked by the Council to take his place
in preparing the annual address from the Chair at the
Society's anniversary in February.    For the subject of this
address I chose an examination of the evidence for the
emergence and submergence of land in the British Islands
during late geological time. In opposition to the pub
lished opinion of Professor Suess, I maintained the old
belief that the changes of level have been mainly due to the
rising and sinking of land, and not, as he contended, to
variations in the level of the sea.
    This dissent from one of the most prominent tenets
of the distinguished Austrian geologist, naturally ex
pressed in courteous and respectful language, never for a
moment disturbed our sincere friendship.        So far from
allowing any differences of opinion on a scientific question
to interrupt our cordial relations, I may mention that
while I was correcting the proof of my address I was at
the same time in correspondence with Suess to obtain
from him personal details as to his career, for the pre
paration of an article on him and his life-work which the
editor had asked me to write for Nature.        The Copley
medal had just been awarded to him by the Royal Society,

                     HONOURS TO SUESS                              353
and it was proposed that a notice and portrait of him
should be included in the Nature series of
                                                          "
                                                             Scientific
Worthies."         In           to my application my friend
wrote :
            " It is reply   kind   indeed that Nature intends to
                      very
bring my picture ; but the honour is extremely heightened
by the circumstance that you, my dear Master, will write
the accompanying notice.              According to your wish I
have wrote down some lines on the non-scientific part
of my life. I might have added that already in 1848,
during our revolution I, then 17 years old, was caught
up by the events and had many an occasion to see the
different facettes of human character and life.               Perhaps
the scenes of that part of my life have formed a part of my
education.        But I have thought better not to enter so far
into personal reminiscences." 1
     The little biographical notice of the Copley medallist
duly appeared in Nature on 4th May, 1 905, accompanied
with an excellent portrait of him.            In his letter after the
paper reached him he wrote :
     " How am I to thank                    I always heard that a
                                   you !
child must have an open wish and a man must have a
scope of ambition.         But what further ambition can move
a geologist after having read so indulgent a sketch of his
course of life ?      So this utmost limit is reached even before
my task is finished,2 and I can only, with a heart full of
gratitude, say that I feel more indebted than ever to you,
my dear Master and friend."
     Before many months had passed Suess took the oppor
tunity of expressing his friendship in a characteristic but
quite unexpected way.           On the following 28th of Decem
ber I received from him a congratulatory letter in German
and in his own distinct and well-known caligraphy, to
   1
     My friend, from the first year of our acquaintance, always wrote
to me in English. As he was born in London, though he left England
while still a child, he rather prided himself on the place of his birth.
   * His great work the Aniliiz der Erde was not yet completed ; the
concluding volume, with the copious Index to the whole three volumes,
was published in 1909. He himself died on 26th April, 1914, happily
before the uprise of the European War by which his country was
ruptured and laid prostrate.

354      SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
which he had obtained the signatures of an illustrious
group of Austrian geologists.     The following is a literal
translation of the document :
                        Vienna,  24th December,    1905.
    H1ghly honoured Master,
             On the occasion of your seventieth birthday,
we the undersigned, send herewith, in simple but most
heartfelt words, an expression of our admiration of your
great scientific achievements, and at the same time our
thanks for all the instruction which we have drawn from
your works.
    May many years of physical vigour and joyous love
 of work be still granted to you. This we wish with
 sincere respect.
    E. Suess, Victor Uhlig, G. Tschermak, F. J. Becke,
 C. Diener, M. Vacek, E. Tietze, F. Teller, Albrecht
 Penck, E. von Mojsisovics [and sixteen other less well-
 known names].
    From this digression to Vienna my narrative returns
 to the Geological Society.   Towards the end of November
  1905 the President, Mr.     J. E. Marr (who has since
 succeeded to the Woodwardian Chair of Geology at
 Cambridge), wrote to me that the Society would celebrate
 its Centenary during the Presidentship of his successor ;
 that he had consulted former occupants of the chair and
 the Vice-Presidents     and other officers then on the
 Council ; that the prevalent opinion was in favour of
 electing a former President, and that there was a general
 wish that I should be asked to fill the Chair for a second
 time.    As the work of the Secretaryship of the Royal
 Society filled up so much of my time, I hesitated to accept
 another office, which, as I knew from experience,
 demanded much serious attention and would require
 still more for the celebration of the Centenary.      I was
 loyally attached to the Geological Society, and could not
 but be much touched by this mark of their appreciation
 and goodwill.     After full consideration I agreed to the
  suggestion that the Council should propose my name to

  CENTENARY OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY                        355
the  Society as President for the next biennial period,
1906-8, and it was arranged that the Vice-Presidents
should as far as possible relieve me of some of the duties
of the Chair.
    The celebration of the first Centenary of the Geological
Society duly took place in London during September
 1907.    It attracted a large and representative assembly
of geological delegates, not only from universities, col
leges, learned societies and institutes in Great Britain and
in our dominions and dependencies, but from almost
every country in Europe, from Egypt, the United States
of America, the Argentine Confederation, Mexico and
Japan. The arrangements were admirably planned and
were carried out without a hitch.       The subject chosen
                                            "
by me for the Centennial Address was          Geology at the
                                          " —
beginning of the Nineteenth Century           a broad sketch
of the state of the science in Europe at the time when the
 Society was founded.
    At the dinner to the delegates the company numbered
 nearly three hundred.      Seldom had so distinguished a
 company of geologists from all parts of the world met
 together.    Especially pleasant was the opportunity to
 welcome some of the foreign leaders in the science whose
 names and writings were familiar to every geological
 student in this country.    From France we were proud to
 see our personal friends, Gosselet, A. de Lapparent,
 Barrois, Termier, Boule, Velain and others.            From
 Germany came the ever-welcome Zirkel, with his col
 league at Leipzig, Hermann Credner, also Steinmann,
 Rothpletz, Walther, and Bergeat. Russia was well
 represented     by   Tschernyschew,     Lcewinson-Lessing,
 Sederholm, and Pavlow.       At the head of the delegates
 from Austria-Hungary was Dr. Tietze, the Director of the
 Imperial Geological Survey. Denmark sent Steenstrup
 and Thoroddsen.       From Scandinavia there came upwards
 of a dozen of representatives, who included Brogger and
 Reusch from Norway, and Nathorst and Sjogren from
 Sweden.     The United States furnished upwards of a
 dozen delegates, among whom I was glad to welcome my

 356     SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
 old comrades W. B. Clark, Arnold Hague, and J. J.
 Stevenson.     The proceedings ended with two simul
 taneous visits to Oxford and Cambridge, where honorary
degrees were conferred on some of the more eminent
foreigners, and then the assembly broke up into parties
who made excursions to various parts of England and
Scotland.
    Such occasions as this Centenary make their little con
tribution to the comity and kindliness of nations.       It had
always been my earnest desire to do all in my power to
promote this end, and more especially to draw closer the
ties of amity between Britain and France.          I inherited
the Scotsman's hereditary good feeling for France ; this
feeling was greatly intensified by my marriage, which
opened for me the way into the warm heart of French
family life, and it was further strengthened by close con
tact with French men of science and of affairs, whose
genius I admired and whose personal friendliness I
greatly valued.      In the year preceding the Centenary of
                                                    "
the Geological Society I had been invited by the      Alliance
            "
Francaise     (an association of the English branch of which
I was Chairman) to give an address in the Sorbonne on
26th February, 1906, and I chose for my subject one that
connected together the progress of science in France and
in Britain, as illustrated especially by the contemporaneous
work of two men, Lamarck in France and Playfair in
Britain, at the beginning of the nineteenth century.          It
was in 1 802 that the great French naturalist published at
Paris his Hydrogeologie and that the Scottish philosopher
gave to the world at Edinburgh his Illustrations of the
Huttonian Theory of the Earth.
    Later in the same year (1906) there came another
opportunity to aid in cementing the friendship of Britain
and France.       I was one of the original members of
the Franco-Scottish      Society — a praiseworthy association
formed for the purpose of reviving the old active cordiality
between Scotsmen and Frenchmen.            Meetings had been
held both in France and in Scotland, and the success
of the Society had been steady from the beginning.        This

          FAUJAS-SAINT-FOND'S TRAVELS                        357
year a meeting took place in Aberdeen           which was well
 attended by natives of both countries.             What with
 meetings for the reading of papers, receptions and
 banquets by the municipal and other authorities, invita
tions to Fyvie Castle and Haddo House, and an excursion
to Dunnotar Castle on the coast, a week was pleasantly
spent in the social intercourse which it is one of the main
objects of the Society to promote.          Having been asked
to make some communication to the meeting I chose for
               " A French
 its subject                  impression of Scotland and the
 Scots in the year 1784," basing my discourse on the two
volumes of the Voyage en Angleterre en Ecosse et aux lies
Hebrides of B. Faujas-Saint-Fond, published in Paris in
  1797.    The report of the lecture given in the newspapers
 brought me a letter from the Glasgow bookseller, Mr.
 Hugh Hopkins, who said he had long contemplated the
 publication of a new edition of the English translation of
 Faujas' volumes, which appeared in 1799, and asked
whether I would be willing to edit such a reprint.             As
 I had long    been  familiar  with the  book, had referred to it
in various writings, and regretted that it was not better
known, I willingly undertook the proposed editorship.
The translation required a good deal of correction.             I
 prefixed   to the  new  edition  a  biographical  notice of  the
author, together with a portrait of him, kindly procured
for me by Professor Lacroix, from the archives of the
 Musee d'Histoire Naturelle at Paris, and I added notes
chiefly in reference to the scientific details of the work.
The two volumes, well printed, and with the original
illustrations reproduced by photography, were published
at Glasgow in the spring of 1 907 by Mr. Hopkins.
     The meeting of the Franco-Scottish Society was not the
only magnet which drew a large concourse of people to
Aberdeen at this time.         Immediately after that meeting
ended, a much more numerous company assembled in the
"                " in order to celebrate the
    granite city                               fourth centenary
of the  most   northerly University    in the United Kingdom.
The festivities extended over four days, and nothing was
left undone which the Chancellor, Lord Strathcona, the

358     SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
Senatus    of  the  University, or the municipality of the
venerable town could do to make them pleasurable and
interesting.     Aberdeen, always grey and often swept
with a keen east wind, put on its gayest attire for the
occasion.     It had no hall large enough to allow the vast
company    to  dine in comfort.   Lord Strathcona, not to be
baulked of his design, had a huge temporary hall specially
constructed for the nonce.        King Edward came from
Balmoral to grace      the celebration by inaugurating the
new buildings at Marischal College.            A number of
honorary degrees were conferred, and I received once
more that of LL.D.       This degree had now been bestowed
on me by each of the four Scottish Universities — an
exceptional distinction of which I am naturally proud,
as a signal contradiction to the rule that a prophet has no
honour in his own country.
    A few months before this northern meeting (December
 1905) another wholly unexpected mark of appreciation
had come to me from my own fellow-countrymen.            The
Royal   Scottish   Geographical Society   awarded   to me  its
highest honour     — the Livingston gold medal, which was
placed in my hands at a public meeting in Edinburgh
where, in answer to the request of the Council I gave an
              " The
address on           History of the Geography of Scotland."
This paper was printed in the Society's Magazine for
 March 1 906, copiously illustrated with a series of excel
lent photographs of characteristic types of Scottish scenery
and rock forms, kindly supplied by the Director of the
Geological Survey in Scotland, and also with a series of
maps indicative of the successive geographical changes
 in the evolution of the present physical features of
 Scotland.
    During my tenure of the Secretaryship of the Royal
 Society, continuous residence in London permitted a
 freer enjoyment of the socialities of metropolitan life than
 had before been practicable.       Especially pleasant were
 the monthly dinners of the Literary Society, where my
 acquaintance with Sir Theodore Martin had grown into a
 warm friendship.       He needed to escape as often as

              SIR THEODORE             MARTIN               359
possible from the increasing noise of the traffic past his
residence in Onslow Square, but his letters from the
country kept me in touch with him.             He had fulmi
nated in the Times against the motor-omnibuses              that
were making his London home almost intolerable to
him.     In one of his letters sent to me at this time he gives
a doleful picture of an evening at the Literary Society :
    "
       I am very sorry I cannot be at the Coquelin con
ference on Friday.       I only came here (Folkestone) yester
day, wanting sorely something to pick me up, and shall
stay on till Monday, when I must return to town.          I will
go to the next Literary dinner, mainly in the hope of
seeing you, for I suffered so much from the smoking at
the last dinner that I had resolved never to go to another.
There was a large company.          Everybody, except Sidney
Colvin, smoked.       I bore it for nearly two hours, as no
body seemed inclined to move. Didn't I pay for it ?
I nearly fainted on my way home, and next day I was
utterly prostrate.     Is not this paying rather too dearly for
seeing one's friends?"
    With Sir Theodore's dislike of tobacco at and after
dinner I heartily sympathised.         I have often wondered
if it ever occurs to prandial smokers that they may be
inflicting discomfort and even pain on some who do not
smoke, especially on those who are unfortunate enough
to have weak eyes.         The habit of smoking at private
dinner parties was not common in my youth.               I have
watched with regret its rapid advance, and with not a
little bodily suffering.      I continued, however, to attend
the dinners of the Literary Society as long as Sir Theodore
 Martin lived. But after an attack of glaucoma in the
left eye in 1906, which necessitated the operation of
iridectomy and greatly impaired the vision of that eye,
 I was still more distressed by the effects of tobacco-smoke.
 Eventually I reluctantly ceased to attend regularly at the
Literary Society, and in the end, in order not to keep out a
candidate (who I hoped might be smoke-proof), I resigned
 my membership.
     Sir Theodore Martin lived until 18th August, 1909,

360      SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
when he gently passed away in sleep at the age of eighty-
three.    His death was a grievous loss to me. He was
ten years older than myself, yet we had many common
interests and associations. We were both Scots, both
educated at the High School and University of Edin
burgh, and both endowed with a share of the perfervidum
ingenium of our countrymen.       We had the same literary
tastes, the same love of the Roman poets, and the same
social instincts that brought us into the Literary Society
and, despite the tobacco, kept us there.       As the years
passed we became more and more closely allied, and I
realised with increasing joy his largeness of heart, his
keen sense of humour, and his unfailing sympathy and
helpfulness.    With deep regret I followed his remains to
the Brompton Cemetery where we laid him beside his
admirable wife, Helen Faucit.
    Another member of the Literary Society by whose side
 I often sat was Sir Richard Henn Collins, Master of the
Rolls. He had a quiet, modest manner that was most
winning, and the remarkable clearness and breadth of his
outlook on life made his conversation full of interest.   At
this time the Classical Association, which was being
formed under the inspiring influence of Samuel H.
Butcher and a few kindred spirits, including the Master
of the Rolls himself, often formed the subject of our talk.
 Sir Richard was chosen in 1904 as the first President of
the Association, and as long as he lived he continued to
further its progress.     He induced me to become a mem
 ber,  and afterwards   I was elected into the Council, the
 meetings of which, held in Mr. Butcher's house in
 Tavistock Square, I was able for some years to attend.
 It was a novel and pleasant experience to come into direct
 contact with some of the foremost classical teachers of
 the day, and to hear educational matters discussed from
 their point of view.    Mr. Butcher's unfailing tact, sound
judgment,    and  great personal charm made those meetings
 memorable to me.
    A few special dinners of these years dwell in my
 memory.     One of them, the first of what was intended

         SIR BENJAMIN STONE'S PARTIES                      361
to be a periodical series, took place in 1 905 at Magdalene
College, Cambridge, in honour of the memory of Samuel
Pepys, on his birthday, 23rd February.        I had often been
a  guest at this College when spending a week-end with
Alfred Newton in his picturesque quarters there, and it
had been my good fortune to be permitted to pass many
hours in the Pepysian Library, still piously preserved in
the original bookcases which the owner constructed to
hold it.    It was pleasant to find that the memory of the
great Diarist's connection with the Royal Society was held
in remembrance at his old college.
    Pleasant, too, were the parties for luncheon, tea, or
dinner, which the late Sir Benjamin Stone, M.P., used to
gather round him in the dining-rooms or on the terrace
at the House of Commons.             The company, usually
predominantly political,    was   often  varied by the com
mingling of representatives of science, literature and art,
and there was a freedom and absence of ceremony about
them, due in no small measure to the geniality of the
worthy host.       I have preserved a menu-card of 26th
July, 1905, on which the company, numbering twenty-
five, wrote their names in pencil on the back, as the cards
were passed round the table.            The names include
Joseph Chamberlain and nine other Members of Parlia
ment. There were also present the Dean of West
minster (J. Armitage Robinson), Sir Sidney Lee, Sir E.
Maunde Thompson, Signor Marconi, Sir Norman
Lockyer, Hall Caine, G. F. Warner, Sir Mancherjee
Bhownagree and others.
    Lord Avebury's pleasant week-end parties at his
country home still continued, with their rambles through
the woods and friendly talk by the way.           He also still
kept up    the  time-honoured   custom    of breakfasts  at his
town house, which at this time was in St. James's Square.
He would not infrequently catch some celebrity who might
be visiting or passing through London, and ask his
friends to meet him.
    During the five secretarial years at the Royal Society I
found time for some literary work. Besides the addresses,

362      SECRETARY OF ROYAL SOCIETY
lectures and editings already alluded to, I wrote the
         "          " for
article    Geology          the new edition of the Encyclo
                                                   "
paedia Britannka (1910), and an article on the Origin of
             "
Landscape      in the Edinburgh Review for October 1906.
At the request of an American friend I put together my
observations on the Roman Campagna (ante, p. 330) in an
essay which appeared in June 1904 in the now extinct
International Quarterly.      It has been reprinted as the
concluding paper in Landscape and History.         My Italian
friends, Professor Lanciani and Commendatore Boni,
have been good enough to express their appreciation of
this essay, and I learnt at the American School in Rome
that it has there been made one of the texts for students
of the history of Rome and its surroundings.
    During my life in Scotland and frequent rambles in all
parts of the country in connection with the work of the
Geological Survey, besides studying the rocks I kept an
open eye and ear in noting the habits and sayings of the
 people, especially in rural life.    It was my good fortune
to meet with many incidents illustrative of native humour
and reminiscent of older generations.        On returning to
the south I used to amuse friends and acquaintances with
these experiences of Scottish manners, customs and
 speech, and was many a time urged to write them down.
At last in the course of a few weeks in 1 903 I wrote the
volume which, with the title of Scottish Reminiscences, was
 published in March 1904.         It met with so favourable a
 reception that the   first edition  was sold off in a month.
 It was reprinted in April, and again in 1905, 1906 and
 1908.
    One of my last duties as Secretary of the Royal Society
 was to contribute four obituary notices of deceased
 Fellows to the Proceedings of the Society. It was perhaps
 an appropriate though saddening duty, seeing that all the
 four were dear personal friends over whose loss I grieved.
 They were Canon Henry Baker Tristram, whose con
 tributions to ornithology, especially to that of Palestine
 and that of the Great Sahara, gave him an eminent place
 among modern naturalists ; Alfred Newton, ornament of

                 OBITUARY NOTICES                          363
the Cambridge     Natural Science School, and my beloved
companion   in  many a yachting cruise ; Sir John Evans,
antiquary, geologist and man of business, from my youth
upward, a leal friend, and in later years a helpful colleague ;
and Henry Clifton Sorby, the founder of modern Petro
graphy, who had been my friend and correspondent for
more than half a century.

                     CHAPTER XII
          PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY
                          (1908-1913)
Early   in the summer of 1908, Lord Rayleigh, who in
 1905 had succeeded Sir William Huggins as President
of the Royal Society, intimated to the Council that he
wished to retire from the Presidentship at the anniversary
in the following November — a step which the Council
and Fellows greatly regretted but could not succeed in
suspending.    At the Society's evening reception on 1 3th
May of that year, the Treasurer informed me that
there was a general desire in the Council and among the
Fellows who had been consulted that I should be asked to
be the next President.       I was quite unprepared for
this announcement, for although, in the contest for the
Secretaryship in 1903, the succession to the Chair had
been rather tactlessly dangled before me by several
supporters of the other candidate, I had never allowed
myself to attach any consequence to these suggestions.
I can honestly say that I had never considered the scientific
work which I had accomplished to be of the quality
expected in the holder of the most important and dignified
post in the whole range of scientific positions in this
country.    But when the Council unanimously nominated
me for election to the office next St. Andrew's Day, I
could only accept the honour with grateful thanks.     I was
in due course elected on the 30th November, 1908, and
I entered on its duties with the resolve to devote my
energies more strenuously than ever to the welfare of the
Royal Society.
                              364

               DIGNITY AND PRESTIGE                      365
    From the foundation of the Royal Society by King
Charles II. in 1662, the office of President has been
surrounded with a special dignity and prestige.      The first
person who held it was named by the King in the original
Charter, and in that formal document the words of the
oath are given which was to be administered to him by the
Lord Chancellor.     The original statutes of 1 663 provided
the President with ample powers for the conduct of the
business of the Society.    He was to take place of every
Fellow, preside at all meetings, and when in the Chair was
                    " while
to remain covered           speaking unto or hearing parti
cular Fellows, notwithstanding their being uncovered."
It was further ordained that " when any Fellow speaketh
he shall address his speech to the President and be
uncovered, and the rest shall be silent." No Fellow was
to leave a meeting without giving notice to the President.
In the same year the King presented a massive and hand
                        " of
some silver-gilt mace,       the same fashion and bigness
as those carried before His Majesty, to be borne before
our President on meeting days."
    Some of these ceremonious formalities have been
dropped in the course of time, but the President of the
Royal Society is still surrounded with more ceremony
than the head of any other of our learned Societies.      He
still takes precedence of every other Fellow, not only
                                                         " at
the ordinary place of meeting, but in all other places where
any number of the Fellows meet as a Society, Council or
Committee."      The original mace, as the venerable
emblem of authority, is still placed in front of him before
the business of the Society or the Council is begun.     The
conduct of the affairs of the Society is still officially
                                       "
affirmed to be in the hands of           the President and
Council."
    From the beginning of its history the Royal Society
has retained the close relation to the ruling Sovereign
which was established by the Royal founder.         The bold
and legible signature of that monarch appears on the first
                                                 "           "
page of the Charter-book with the word             Founder
appended by himself.       The successive sovereigns who

 366        PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
have      followed     him    have   inscribed their names as
" Patron " in        the same   venerable   volume.    The Presi
dent and Council, as occasion has arisen, have availed
themselves of their privilege of personal access to the
Throne, and on State occasions the President receives an
invitation to attend.         During my Presidentship several
such incidents occurred, as will be told in later pages.
     One of the stated duties of the President of the Royal
 Society is to read an address to the Fellows at the Anniver
 sary meeting on St. Andrew's Day.             The choice of sub
ject is left entirely to him ; but it always includes mention
of the names of the Fellows and foreign members who
have died      during the past year, with generally some slight
 biographical notice of the deceased.           He also presents
 to the recipients the various medals which the Council
 has awarded to them, accompanying each with a brief
 statement of the grounds on which the prize has been
 assigned.      The obituary notices often involve some
 trouble.      It is not always easy to obtain the essential data
 required even in the baldest notice, and in the case of
 deceased foreign members the difficulties and delays may
 be much increased.         In the case of the decease of the most
 illustrious Fellows of the Society, for whom burial in
 Westminster Abbey is called for by the public voice, the
 President and officers have often to take an important
 part in the arrangements.         Thus when Lord Lister died,
 and at his request was buried beside his wife in the West
 Hampstead Cemetery, the desire was widespread that
 some memorial of him should be placed in the Abbey.
 The Committee of which the President was Chairman,
 after a consultation with the Dean, had a medallion por
 trait of the great physician prepared, a similar memorial
 for Sir Joseph Hooker, who had predeceased Lord Lister
 by only two months, and another for Alfred Russel
 Wallace were also made and erected on the same wall in
the Abbey.         At a distance of a few yards from this sacred
 spot the beautiful window to the memory of Lord Kelvin
casts its varied light upon the floor.       Thus in our national
Valhalla modern science has been accorded its place.

          F. GALTON AND COPLEY                 MEDAL         367
    The Copley Medal, the highest honour in the gift of the
Royal Society was adjudged in 19 10 to Francis Galton.
It happened that finding the climate of Haslemere to
suit his health better than that of London, he had spent the
winter months for several years close to my country home,
so that   I saw much   of him.    He wrote  there his volume of
Reminiscences of his life.        When    the manuscript was
 in progress he used to recount with glee how remarkably
the recollection of one incident, as he wrote it down, would
 bring to remembrance others which he had till then for
gotten.      I was able to send him the first private informa
tion of the adjudication of the Copley Medal to him.
When the awards were made public he wrote :
                                                        " I have
just read in the newspaper the announcement, for which
your kind letter prepared me, of the award of the Copley
 Medal. No one can value such an award more highly
than I do, for I am loyal to the Royal Society to the back
 bone, and care more for their good opinion in scientific
 matters than for that of the whole world besides.          Pray
 express that feeling in suitable terms for me as occasion
 may arise.      You know how impossible it is for me to be
 present at the Anniversary meeting, and will, I am sure,
 understand my regret.        The Copley Medal is indeed a
 prize."     In his absence the medal was received for him
 by   his relative Sir George Darwin.
     I saw Galton at Haslemere after the Anniversary, and
 found him with his mental faculties unimpaired and in the
 highest spirits.     About the same time that he had been
 designated as recipient of the Copley Medal, he had
 received a letter from tfie Prime Minister intimating the
 King's desire to confer upon him the honour of Knight
 hood.      But his brilliant race was now run.       Six weeks
 later he quietly passed away at the great age of almost
 ninety years.     I had known him for exactly half a century.
 We first met in London at a dinner of the Royal Geo
 graphical Club.      At that time he did me the good service
 of asking me to contribute a paper to his volume of Vaca
 tion Tourists in 186 1 (ante, p. 91), and thenceforward I was
  favoured with many proofs of his genial friendship.        The

 368     PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
 importance of his scientific work, so varied and so original,
in diverse directions, was hardly, in my opinion, ade
quately appreciated in his lifetime.     He early displayed
remarkable gifts as a pioneer traveller and scientific
explorer in tropical Africa, and wrote the best book we
have on the Art of Travel.         His sympathy with geo
graphical discovery remained keen to the end.         But he
will probably be best remembered by his various con
tributions to the problem of heredity, and as the
brilliant but patient founder of the doctrine of Eugenics
as a system for the betterment of humanity.
    At the next Anniversary of the Royal Society (191 1) it
was my pleasant duty to present the Copley Medal to
Gallon's cousin, Sir George Darwin. This prize was
awarded to him in recognition of the importance of his
long series of researches on Tidal Theory, including its
bearing on the physical constitution of the earth, and on
problems of evolution in the planetary system.          Little
did any of us foresee that in less than two years this
brilliant son of a brilliant father would be cut off by a fell
disease, leaving in the ranks of British science a gap that
will not soon be filled again. At the same time that the
Copley Medal was adjudicated, one of the Royal Medals
was assigned to George Chrystal, Professor of Natural
Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh, in apprecia
tion of his contributions to mathematical and physical
science.    At the moment when the President and Council
made this award it was not known that the illustrious
mathematician was then lying on his deathbed.              He
died before the announcement of our intention could
reach him.     The Council felt that the award should not
be cancelled, but that the King, as the Royal donor of the
Medal, should be appealed to for permission to transmit
it to the family of the deceased philosopher.        To this
request His Majesty at once gave his consent, together
with a request that an assurance of his sincere sympathy
should be conveyed to the family.      The last time when it
fell to me to present the Copley Medal (19 13) I had again
to place it in the hands of an old friend, Sir Edwin Ray

           THE SOCIETY'S RECEPTIONS                         369
Lankester, to whom, as the most eminent zoologist in the
country, it had been adjudged.
   It has long been one of the usages of the Royal Society
to hold two evening receptions in the course of the early
summer, one for the male sex alone, the other to which
ladies are invited.      These gatherings are always held
at the Society's apartments in Burlington House.               A
marked feature of them is the display of some of the most
recent inventions and discoveries in science and its
applications.    The meeting-rooms, with their portrait-
covered walls and the great library with its ranges of
books, never look so attractive as on these occasions, when
they are brilliantly lit up with electric light, and filled with
a cheerful crowd in evening dress and in uniform.            On
the ladies' evenings the President, who receives the guests,
is usually accompanied by wife or daughter who assists
in the reception.      For me it was unhappily impossible
that my invalid wife should play her part, but my eldest
daughter, with not a little trepidation, undertook the duty.
   One of the most arduous duties which the President
and Council of the Royal Society have each year to per
form is that of selecting from the number of candidates
for admission into the Society those whom they consider
to have the highest claims.     The number to be so selected
is limited to fifteen annually.     Even if the list of candi
dates were short it would often be a delicate task to decide
between rival claimants.       But as the waiting list now
exceeds one hundred, the task has become anxiously
difficult.  Since the Society embraces the whole range of
" natural
           knowledge," it is obviously desirable that each
great department of science should be adequately repre
sented in the membership.         Hence those departments
which have suffered the heaviest losses have special
claims for consideration.     It has been found to be a con
venient practice to tabulate the names of the candidates
according to the branches of science to which they have
individually devoted themselves, and each member of
Council is supplied with a copy of this tabulation before
the first meeting for the preliminary consideration of the
     A .G.                     3A

 37o      PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
 selection.    The representatives of each department of
 science have opportunities of conferring together and
 considering which of the candidates in that science they
 should recommend to the Council.             It usually happens
 that the greater portion of the fifteen is secured in this
 way without much difference of opinion.           But one or two
 vacancies generally remain which may give rise to pro
 longed discussion.       It has often been found convenient
 to find a place there for a man who, though hardly perhaps
 to be counted as a man of science, has distinguished him
 self by his zeal for the furtherance of scientific progress or
by his eminence in some of the practical applications of
science, or whose election would obviously be for the
benefit of the Society.        For at least two centuries the
Fellowship of the Royal Society was not restricted to men
of science, but was liberally conferred on eminent church
men, lawyers, statesmen, soldiers, sailors, artists, and men
of letters, and unfortunately, even on individuals who had
no valid claim of any kind, but whose ambition it was to
                   Shine in the dignity of F.R.S.
The tendency since       the middle of last     century has been
to restrict the election more and more         to men who have
attained eminence in the prosecution            of original work
in some branch of science.         There can    be no doubt that
this tendency has been greatly to the           advantage of the
Society.     But it may perhaps be carried too far.
                             "
                                                             If it
should entirely exclude        the odd man," as he was called,
in the selection of the fifteen, it would deprive the Society
of a class of men who from the very beginning have been
to it a source of strength.
    In my opinion it is not desirable that the Royal Society
should become entirely a professorial body.               That it
must be recruited mainly from the ranks of the teachers
of science in our universities, colleges and schools is
obvious, for these ranks include the great majority of the
active men of original research in the country.           But my
own experience convinces me that the Society needs the
presence of a small leaven of men of affairs, more worldly

           ELECTION INTO THE SOCIETY                        371
  wise than most men immersed in the engrossing prose
  cution of original research.     The advice and assistance
  of such men may be of much advantage in the broad
  questions of policy which the Royal Society, from its
  leading and representative position in science, is called
 upon to consider.       I sincerely hope that the practice
 will continue to be observed, as provided in the Statutes,
            "
 whereby      persons who either have rendered conspicuous
 service to the cause of science, or are such that their elec
 tion would be of signal benefit to the Society," may from
  time to time be added to the membership.
     During my Presidentship I did my best to promote the
 occasional election of such outsiders.        There was one
 occasion when a distinguished         statesman's  name was
 mentioned at a meeting of the Council as one of those who
 " in the interests of the advancement of natural know
        "                                                  The
 ledge might well be proposed for the Fellowship.
 late Duke of Northumberland,        who was himself a con
 spicuous example of the kind of man contemplated in the
 Statutes, was then in the Council and was present when
the statesman's name was brought forward.          A view had
 been expressed by a member of Council that a man in the
position of the person in question had already so many
honorary distinctions that it was hardly any compliment
to offer him the F.R.S.         The same evening the Duke
                                                        " I did
promptly sent a note to me in which he wrote :
not like to say anything, but I did not at all agree with a
remark which was made at the meeting of the Council
to-day when the statesman's name was mentioned, to the
effect that membership of the Royal Society was a matter
of comparative indifference to those who already enjoyed
a plethora of other honours.       It seems to me that while
the recognition of learned Societies must be peculiarly
gratifying to scientific men, and titles and honours to
politicians, as being in each case the testimony of those
best qualified to judge of their work ; on the other hand,
favours granted by the State to men of science, and by
scientific bodies to politicians and men of affairs, are a sign
that the world at large, and not merely their own coterie,

372            PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
appreciates the services which they have rendered.    And
           '
therefore,   F.R.S.' being, as it         is,
                                       the blue ribbon of
science, must have    aspecial importance            in
                                             the eyes even
of the most distinguished recipient."    The candidate was
duly elected.
     It  probably not generally known how many are the
          is
public   institutions   wherein the Royal Society              is
                                                              repre
sented upon the governing body.              They number some
thirty in all. Some of them are educational. Thus they
include by Act of Parliament the ten chief public schools
in England.       From 1892, for example,            Icontinued for
thirty years to be the delegate of the Society            in
                                                         the govern
ing body of Harrow School (p. 251).               Even among the
Universities, the Society has voice
                                  a             the election of the
                                                in
Lowndean Professor of Astronomy and Geometry at
Cambridge, and sends       a  member to the University Courts
of Liverpool and Bristol.         In the state-aided institutions,
such as the Greenwich Observatory and the British
Museum, the Society has been assigned                   place in the
                                                         a
administration.      As already mentioned, the President            is
Chairman of the Board of Visitors of the Royal Observa
tory, Greenwich, and         in  that capacity presides at the
annual visitation of the Observatory by the Board.              This
visitation    always
                is     an interesting   event.    The   Astronomer
Royal then gives an account of the varied work of the
Observatory during the past year, and an opportunity
is afforded to meet the higher members of the staff at
the luncheon which makes an agreeable interlude in the
business.     The examination of instruments and of the
photographic work of the past year              sometimes
                                                is              most
                                                                a
fascinating part    of the  employment      of the  day.
   The President      is   ex officio a   Trustee of the British
 Museum. When          in    that capacity      I first attended    a
meeting    of the  Trustees   there   had  been  for  some years an
intermittent but persistent agitation on the part of some
prominent naturalists       in this country against the system
of administration of the Museum.                     complaint was
                                                     A
made that the Natural History branch in Cromwell Road
was unduly fettered         by  the control of the older estab

        TRUSTEES OF BRITISH MUSEUM                          373
lishment in Bloomsbury.          As the Trustees hold their
meetings alternately     at each of these centres, I made it my
duty to enquire into the matter in dispute.         The alleged
grievances had been so constantly and so forcibly reiterated
that I was prepared to find them resting on substantial
grounds.      The officials at both of the Museums were old
acquaintances from whom I had no difficulty in eliciting
the actual facts.      The result was to convince me that the
complaints    arose  from   misapprehension or ignorance, and
that there was absolutely no justification for them.
    When a fresh outbreak of dissatisfaction arose in the
         press, the Trustees, who were aware that I had been
  ooking into the subject, commissioned the Speaker of the
fmblic
House of Commons, who is one of the three Principal
Trustees, to write a letter to me stating precisely the
points on which they wished my opinion in regard to the
relations between the two Museums.           This letter and my
reply were written expressly for the purpose of being sent
to the public press, and they appeared in the Times of 1 3th
 December, 1909.         I stated frankly and fully the result
 to which my investigation had led me, and concluded by
 "
    asserting that I know of no establishment, either in this
 or any other country, wherein more favourable conditions
 have been provided for harmonious and effective co-opera
 tion in scientific work than have been devised by the Board
 of Trustees of the British Museum for the administration
 of the important departments committed to their care."
 There was a reply in the newspaper from one of the
 malcontents, of which I took no notice.            The perfect
 harmony which for many years past has subsisted between
the two Museums is the best disproof of the alleged
grievances.
     The representative of the Royal Society among the
 Trustees of the British Museum is one of a Board
 numbering some fifty members and meeting once every
 three months.        At these quarterly meetings a brief
 resumé is given of the affairs of the Museum since the
 previous meeting, but as a rule little or no fresh business
 is then brought forward.         The real governing body is

374     PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
the Standing Committee, consisting of twenty Trustees,
who meet every fortnight during most of the year.
Unless, therefore, the President of the Royal Society
should be elected into this Committee he has practically
little or no voice in the general management of the
institution, and, finding- nothing required of him but to
listen while the Director reads a report of work already
done, he is apt to give up attendance at the meetings ; and,
as he ceases to be a Trustee on the expiry of the five
years of his Presidentship, he cannot be greatly blamed
if, in the midst of his many duties and engagements, he
allows his ornamental Trusteeship to fall aside.         Fortun
ately  for  me
             I      was  saved  from this  pardonable neglect.
The Director of the Museum intimated to me that on
 1oth December, 1910,       I    had been elected to fill the
vacancy on the Standing       Committee   caused  by  the retire
ment of the Prince of Wales on succeeding to the Throne.
He accompanied this intimation with kindly expression
                                           a
                                         "
of his own satisfaction that would not only strengthen
                            I
the representation of natural science but would also be in
sympathy with the literary and archaeological side of the
Museum."         Both of the departments had for me the
strongest    attraction.    And my experience of the work
of the Standing Committee much enhanced that interest,
and made me realise how great would be my loss when at
the end of my tenure of the Chair of the Royal Society
I  should cease to be   a    Trustee of the Museum.         This
rupture was happily for me prevented.            On 2nd July,
1913, that  is   five months before the end of the President
ship,  official intimation   came that the Electing Trustees
of the Museum had elected me           a   Trustee to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of Lord Avebury.              Thus,
as  a permanent     Trustee  and  as
                                  a  member    of the  Standing
Committee,  I     continued to attend the meetings and to take
the keenest pleasure in the varied interests of the two
Museums and of their officers, until the advance of old age
has made frequent journeys to London hardly possible.
    One of the most interesting and important of the
institutions of which in my time the President of the

      NATIONAL PHYSICAL LABORATORY                          375
Royal Society was Chairman was the National Physical
Laboratory — a great establishment due to the initiation
of a few Fellows of the Royal Society, and most of all to
the advice and strong support of Lord Rayleigh.            The
annual visitation of the Laboratory     at  Bushy  was  one   of
the pleasantest functions which the President had to
attend.    It was interesting each year to note the persistent
growth of the place, fresh departments of scientific work
being continuously embraced within the scope of an able
staff, under the superintendance and inspiration of the
Director, Dr. (now Sir) Richard T. Glazebrook.        Perhaps
the most novel and impressive addition to the appliances
of the laboratory, made while I presided, was the Naval
Tank, so indispensable for experiments on the models of
ships, which was generously presented for the service of
the nation by Mr. (now Sir) Alfred Yarrow, Bart., the
well-known      marine engineer and shipbuilder.           The
number of new departments of investigation has             been
largely augmented in recent years, more particularly
during the course of the Great War, where the services
of the Laboratory have been invaluable.          From modest
beginnings,    this institution has risen  rapidly until it has
now established its position as the supreme scientific
court of appeal and advice, on all questions involving the
physical properties of matter, the strength and quality of
materials,    gauges and standards.         It has, however,
become too vast an establishment to be adequately super
vised and audited by the Royal Society.           Accordingly
from 1st April, 191 8, it has been transferred to the new
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research.
   Reference has already been made to the share taken
by the Royal Society in the organisation of the National
Antarctic Expedition of 1 901-1904 (p. 348). Similar
co-operation was freely given by the Society to the pre
parations for Captain Scott's second expedition, and with
these preparations I was closely associated during the
Presidentship.      I had come to be on terms of friendly
intimacy with some of the officers who were to conduct
this fresh raid into the mysteries of Antarctica.        It was

376      PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
impossible not to realise that when they sailed we were
perhaps parting with these friends for the last time.     With
Dr. Wilson in particular, as already mentioned, I had
formed close ties of sympathy.        Several letters from him,
written during the outward voyage and the preliminary
months on land, were full of eager enthusiasm and hope.
His last letter to me was a long one written at M'Murdo
Sound on 31st October, 191 1, the day before the start
was made for the last and fatal journey.            It gave an
interesting summary of what the various observers had
accomplished up till then, and concluded with the remark :
" but we have still
                       much to do, and every one is anxious
for another year to do it."         He was buoyant over the
 prospect   of the  Barrier journey and what was to be done
afterwards.      Brave souls !     He and his companions
reached their goal, but perished in the snow on their way
 back.    They were found eight months afterwards in the
 attitude of sleep, Scott with his arm lying across Wilson.
 The preparation and publication of the scientific results
 of the researches in which these intrepid explorers
 sacrificed their lives have been in progress for some years,
 though greatly hindered by the War ; but the series of
 notable volumes, now in course of publication by the
 Trustees of the British Museum, will form a fitting
 memorial of one great department of the scientific work
 which they accomplished.
     Sometimes duties of a more personal kind are imposed
 on the President of the Royal Society.        Thus he is from
 time to time appealed to by the Prime Minister for
 information as to the work and standing of deceased men
 of science who have left widows and families on whose
 behalf the head of the Government is solicited for pensions
 from the Civil List.       In all cases great care is taken to
 obtain accurate information for the guidance of the
  Minister.     Now and then the President may himself be
  the petitioner for such state assistance.     Thus, when Sir
  William Huggins died, leaving his widow with somewhat
  narrowed means, the Royal Society sent a well-signed
  memorial to Mr. Asquith, urging that a pension should be

            THE SOCIETY'S PORTRAITS                       377
given to Lady Huggins in appreciation of her husband's
great services to science, and of her share in them.     This
request, granted   with commendable    speed, greatly cheered
the widow, who, however, did not live long to enjoy the
Royal bounty.
   Among the visible links that connect the Royal Society
with its illustrious past, none are more important, or at
least more generally appreciated, than the portraits in oil
of former distinguished Fellows which adorn the walls of
Burlington House, and form a noble series of Presidents,
Secretaries and other notable men, including a few foreign
men of mark.       Many of these pictures are of value as
works of art, for they include canvasses by Kneller,
Hogarth, Reynolds, Lawrence, G. F. Watts, John Collier,
H. von Herkomer, George Reid, W. Q. Orchardson
and other artists of note.       This important collection
had remained for many years uncleaned, not a few of the
portraits being unglazed ; so that they had become dull
and begrimed.       With the ready assent of the Council,
and with the valuable expert aid of Sir Walter Armstrong,
we had every picture carefully examined and cleaned by
Mr. A. H. Buttery, and all the more important of them
covered with glass.     It was astonishing to find how many
new features were revealed in some of them after the
crust of London dust had been removed. They will now
probably remain clear and bright for a decade or two until
some future President and Council may find it necessary
to repeat the treatment.
   When the Germans during the War began to drop
bombs on London, the walls of the Royal Society were
promptly stripped of their portraits, which were taken
down to the underworld of the building, where they re
mained until after the Armistice. The enemy's air-raids
never reached them, and they have been re-hung, without
having suffered perceptible injury, either during the
transference, or from having spent four years in the damp
darkness of a London basement.
   The history of the Royal Society and the record of its
relations to the public life of the times through which it

378      PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
has lived have     always had for me a great fascination.
One welcomed      the occurrence of any incident in current
life that recalled the early days of the Society, when its
home lay in the city of London, when its rooms were in
Gresham College, and when it had close and friendly
relations with the Corporation and the City Companies.
Several such incidents occurred during my period of office.
One of the most interesting of them was the laying of the
foundation-stone of the new Gresham College on 24th
July, 191 2, to which ceremony the" Mercers' Company,
in remembrance of old times, did not omit to invite the
President, who at the luncheon alluded to the hospitality
with which the Royal Society, in its earliest infancy, was
accommodated in the original college of Sir Thomas
Gresham, where for years it held its meetings, conducted
its experiments, and accumulated its growing collection of
" rarities."
    Again, in the spring of 1 9 1 1 , the President of the Royal
Society was invited as representative of science to take part
in the celebration of the Tercentenary of the authorised
version of the English Bible.           It was not intended to
concentrate special attention on that particular translation,
but rather to deal with the broader and deeper subject
of the Bible in our national and individual life. Having
warm sympathy with the object in view I gladly con
sented.     Apart from the deep religious value of the book,
                                          "
its importance as a monument of             English undefyled,"
and as one of the great literary triumphs of our language,
deserved     every recognition     that could be given.       A
representative deputation waited on the King, who took
a kindly interest in the celebration.           The Stationers'
Company entertained the members of the deputation in
their picturesque hall, with all its relics and associations.
    Reference may be made to one further link connecting
the Royal Society with the past.             The house in St.
 Martin's Street where Sir Isaac Newton lived from 17 10
to 1725 had long been marked by one of the little porce
lain tablets which are now piously affixed to residences
wherein notable inmates have dwelt.             I used often to

 250th   ANNIVERSARY OF THE SOCIETY                        379
turn out of Trafalgar Square in order to look at the old
building, which was still inhabited.     Its association with
the most famous man who ever filled the Chair of the
Royal Society was not its only attraction. After Newton's
time it was for some years the home of Fanny Burney.
To the small-paned wooden turret on the garret, which
she believed to have been the great philosopher's obser
                                                   "
vatory, she used to betake herself for quiet.        It is my
                                     " where I can retire to
favourite sitting-place," she said,
read or write any of my fancies or vagaries."
   But the day came which saw the house tenantless and
dilapidated.    Along with other sympathisers, I tried to
have it rescued from destruction, and preserved as a
valuable memorial of the past.     Eventually I enlisted the
London County Council in the effort to save it.            But
with every desire to rescue   it,they found this impossible,
for after careful examination the premises were found to
be in such a   bad and even dangerous condition, that any
attempt to preserve them would have been futile.            I
learnt that some parts of the woodwork of the interior,
particularly the staircase, were carefully removed with
the view of being erected elsewhere   in memory of Newton.
Mr. Rupert Potter, brother-in-law of Sir Henry Roscoe,
took some excellent photographs of the building before      it
was pulled down.
   The most outstanding incident      in  the history of the
Royal Society during my Presidentship was the cele
bration of its two hundred and fiftieth anniversary in the
summer of   1   1
                92.   Early in the previous year the Council
had been reminded that this date was approaching       ;   and
after full consideration they resolved that the occasion
was one which deserved to be observed        in some worthy
way.    Having regard to the recognised position of the
Society among the Academies of the world, and to the
friendly relations which we had always maintained with
these institutions, and with men of science in every
country, we determined to invite delegates from the
universities and learned societies of the Old and New
World to celebrate with us our 250th birthday.         Illumi

380       PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
nated cards    of invitation, expressed in Latin, were sent out
in January, and the festival was arranged to extend from
Monday 15th to Thursday          18 th July.
    Besides actively sharing in the general preparations, I
specially undertook to compile and edit a new and enlarged
edition of the Society's Record, which was to be ready
before the commencement of the festival.          Completed in
good time,      and  forming a quarto volume of nearly 500
pages,   it  contained  an account of the foundation and early
history of the Society, together with the original text of all
its Charters, Statutes and Trusts, and lists of its Bene
factors, Presidents, and other officers from the beginning
down to the date of publication, also an account of the
Library, Portraits and Busts. Full details were given of
the existing Committees and Boards, also, as perhaps the
most valuable part of the book, a Chronological Register
of the Fellows was included, showing the dates of their
election from the first year of the Society's existence to
 191 2.     In the preparation of this volume important
 contributions     were made by Sir Alfred B. Kempe
(Treasurer) and the clerical staff.
     I was particularly desirous also that our Charter-book
 should be reproduced in facsimile in good time for the
 Anniversary.       As already stated, this venerable volume
 contains on its first page the original signature of Charles
 II., our Founder, followed in later pages by those of his
 royal successors on the Throne, together with those of the
 Fellows and many of the foreign members during the
 space of two centuries and a half.          The vellum leaves
 of this valuable historical register were admirably photo
 graphed at the Society's rooms in Burlington House, under
 the care of the Oxford University Press.         The resulting
 large folio of 1 50 pages contains a collection of autographs
 probably without an equal, as representative of the science
 and culture of Europe during the period which it
 embraces.       The volume also includes a facsimile of the
 two pages of the original Resolution of 5th December,
                              "
  1660, to found a Society      to consult and debate concern
 ing the promoting of Experimental! Learning," together

        CELEBRATION OF                   250th  BIRTHDAY           381
with the 115 signatures attached thereto. These signa
tures show that the investigators, by whose energy and
enthusiasm the movement to start the Society was set on
foot, were a mere handful of men who had gathered
around them a large company of sympathisers from the
social circles of the time.              The literary element was
conspicuously present ;          it  included  John Dryden and the
most noted poets and dramatists of the day.                      This
widely representative character of the Fellowship of the
Royal Society has been preserved down to my own time.
I find on the page which contains my signature those of
Alfred Tennyson, Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, Lord Dufferin,
David Livingstone, and Frederick William Farrar.
     Before the opening of our festival a copy of each of
the two volumes was presented by the President and
Treasurer to King George at Buckingham Palace, who
as he turned over the pages expressed the pleasure with
which he received them, and at the same time his good
wishes for the success of our celebration.1
     The proceedings began by an informal reception on the
evening of Monday, 15th July, being the anniversary
of the day on which the Charter of Incorporation of the
Royal Society passed the Great Seal in 1662, therefore
strictly the Society's birthday.             Next morning the pro
ceedings were inaugurated by a short commemorative
service in the ancient Abbey of Westminster, when the
Dean (Bishop Ryle) read a short but impressive address
             " in the name of the whole world of contem
in which
                                                  "
porary Christian thought," he gave                  expression to the
gratitude which,       as  a  rule, the clergy have little oppor
tunity    to render,   for   the    amazing enrichment of human
thought which has resulted from the patient researches
of Natural Science, during the past two hundred and fifty,
                                                                "
and in particular during the past eighty, years."                  We
                                  "
are convinced," he said,              that the discoveries of Science
discharge a truly prophetic office in making known to
   1 An account of the proceedings at this Festival was printed for the
Royal Society, and published in 1913 in a thin quarto volume with
the title, The Celebration of the Two Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary
of the Royal Society of London, July 15 -10, ion.

 382      PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
 mankind the facts of the Universe,      in which we believe
 that we may read the record of the      Will of the Supreme
 Mind."
     In the afternoon of  the same day, the formal reception
 of  the visitors took place in the Society's Great Library,
 the delegates being placed in alphabetical order according
 to the country represented.        The President gave an
 address welcoming the representatives of the Universities
 and Academies from all parts of the civilised world.
 Thereafter the delegates presented their missives, which
 were too numerous to be read at the time, so that the
 representatives of each country were asked to name one
 of their number to convey their felicitations in a few words.
 Every country in Europe was represented, and especially
 numerous and eminent were the delegates from the
 United States of America.       The universities, scientific
 societies and institutions of the British Isles sent a large
and distinguished band of representatives — a welcome
 tribute to the place of the Royal Society in the history of
science in this country.     Our Dominions and Dependen
cies were also well represented.       The eighteen German
universities which sent delegates, instead of each pre
senting a separate address, with great sense and good
taste combined to offer a large bronze tablet with a Latin
inscription recording the congratulations of the German
universities
               " to
                    the Royal Society, the illustrious culti
vator and protectress of the Sciences, on the happy
completion of 250 years."
    On the evening of this first day a commemorative
dinner was given.      In making the arrangements for this
occasion I wished to recall some of the early associations
of the Society. In the first place, from the civic authorities
the privilege was obtained of having the dinner in the
spacious and venerable Guildhall of the City of London.
The Lord Mayor and other members of the Corporation
were invited, as well as representatives of the City Com
panies with which, in its Gresham College days, the
Society had been most closely in touch.         Further, as a
reminiscence of the prominent place filled by the digni

 CELEBRATION OF              250th   ANNIVERSARY             383
 taries of the  Church in the early Fellowship of the Society,
 the presence    of the Archbishops of Canterbury and York,
 Cardinal Bourne, the Dean of Westminster, and the
 Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of
 Scotland was secured.       The Government of the day was
 represented by the Prime Minister and several of his
 colleagues. The Lord Chief Justice and many other
 legal luminaries brought to remembrance the many
 eminent lawyers who were among the early supporters
 of the Society. The whole company numbered nearly
 500.    The Prime Minister (Mr. Asquith) proposed the
 toast of The Royal Society, and the President responded.
 To the toast of The Universities at home and abroad, pro
 posed by Lord Morley, replies were made by Professor
Picard for France, Professor Waldeyer for Germany and
Professor Winkler for the Netherlands.             The Arch
bishop of Canterbury made a happy speech in proposing
 The Learned Societies in the Old World and the New, which
elicited replies from Professor Volterra representing the
ancient Accademia dei Lincei of Rome, Prince Galitzin
from the Imperial Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg,
and Dr. R. S. Woodward, President of the Carnegie
Institution, Washington.
    On the foreign guests this banquet evidently made           a
deep impression.        The splendour of    the antique Hall,
with all its historical associations in the centre of the life of
London, the English habits and customs, so distinct in
many ways from their own, such as the white-capped and
white-clothed attendants who carved the joints at side-
tables, left on their minds a picture which they assured us
they would never forget.        Fortunately the proceedings,
every   detail  of  which   had  been thought out with the
greatest care, passed off without, so far as I could see or
hear, a single hitch.
    The morning of Wednesday 17th was devoted to
sight-seeing, especially among the Museums and Art
Galleries.     The Archbishop of Canterbury was good
enough to conduct a party over the historical parts of
Lambeth Palace,          In the afternoon the Duke and

384      PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
Duchess of Northumberland received the delegates and
Fellows with their ladies at a garden party at Syon
House, their residence on the Thames where, in brilliant
weather, the guests saw something of the summer beauty
of an English park. In the evening a conversazione was
held in the rooms of the Royal Society, in the midst of its
large assemblage of portraits of successive generations of
Presidents and other eminent Fellows, and the various
historical relics preserved at Burlington House.    Besides
these records of the past, some novel pieces of scientific
apparatus were shown in practical working.
   On the afternoon of Thursday 18th the King and
Queen gave a garden party at Windsor Castle.          After
passing through St. George's Chapel and the State
apartments, the company assembled on the Terrace,
where the President, Treasurer and Secretaries were
presented to their Majesties by the Lord Chamberlain,
and then the delegates grouped in countries were pre
sented in succession by the President to the King and
Queen.     This ceremony over, the company dispersed
among the large number of other guests invited for the
occasion.    The evening was given to a series of farewell
dinners, at which the foreign delegates and their ladies
could see a little of the domestic life of English homes.
   Though the series of functions arranged by the Royal
Society was now completed, the festival was prolonged
next day by the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge,
each of which invited a large company of Fellows and
delegates.    Besides luncheons and garden parties, a
graduation ceremonial was arranged at each place, and a
few of the more eminent foreigners received honorary
degiees.
   The many letters which, after the celebration was over,
came from the guests both at home and abroad, amply
confirmed our own conviction that the festival had
been highly successful.      The German delegates were
notably enthusiastic, and expressed their hearty wish that
the festival might inaugurate a new epoch of splendid
activity for the Royal Society.        It happened, a few

              PRINCE LICHNOWSKY'S SPEECH                     385
months later that the Royal Society had a further proof of
German goodwill.        On the following St. Andrew's Day,
presiding at the Society's anniversary dinner, I placed on
my right hand Prince Lichnowsky, the newly appointed
Ambassador of Germany at the Court of St. James.            It
was the first public dinner at which he had been present
since his arrival in London.    In the course of conversation
with him   I found  that he would not be unwilling to address
the audience, though we had not meant to call upon him
for a speech, and as it seemed to me that it might be of
advantage to the political relations between the two
countries       at the outset of his career in England, he
                  if,
were given an opportunity to speak to the English public,
I  interpolated in the programme the toast of his health,
which was warmly received by the company.          He spoke
excellent idiomatic English, and told me that he had been
accustomed to speak the language and to read English
literature since his boyhood.     In the course of his reply
he said
    "
              :
        Hume was the predecessor of Kant and Schopen
hauer, and        I     do not believe that in any country in the
world are Shakespeare and Byron more fully appreciated
or deeply understood than           in
                                Germany.        am confident
                                                 I
that this close intellectual connection will,   in  the future
as in the past, be   powerful
                            a  aid to the efforts  of all those
who work for the establishment of good understanding
and harmony between our two kindred peoples.                 . .
                                                             .
Most luckily      can avail myself of this opportunity of
                        I
stating that never between England and Germany have
there been more intimate and more sincere relations than
at present.   Both countries are working side by side in
the same cause of maintaining European peace."
    It  impossible to doubt that these words expressed the
         is
Prince's true sentiments and honest belief. But events
have since shown that, unknown to him, the higher
powers of his country were all the while busily preparing
for the war which only twenty months later they launched
upon the world.
   So far from there being among us at that time any

 386     PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
widespread conviction that Germany was bent on war,
various active agencies were at work to promote cordial
relations with that country.     Thus the organisation of the
" Albert               " was
          Committee           specially designed to promote
friendly feelings towards our German cousins.           Lord
Avebury was its President, and in 1910 I became a
member.       At the same time there were far-seeing
prophets who, pointing to the gigantic growth of the
German army and navy, warned us to prepare and be
on our guard.
    The International Association of Academies met at
Rome in May 19 10. Having been nominated one of the
delegates of the Royal Society to this meeting I induced
Sir David Prain, another of the delegates, and Lady Prain
to travel with me direct to Naples in order to have a few
days there before the sittings of the Association began in
Rome.     We made some pleasant excursions, and one
morning I attended a meeting of the Physical and Mathe
matical Section of the Royal Society of Naples, whereof I
had recently been elected one of the eight foreign members
to fill the place made vacant by the death of Albert
Gaudry.     The proceedings interested me in being so
different from those of our Societies at home.           The
question  of the publication  of papers which  had been  read
at a previous meeting was discussed, and the vote was then
taken by ballot.    The chairman having voted, he pushed
forward to me, seated at his right hand, two saucers, one
containing white balls, the other black, and the ballot box
was placed in front of me that I might exercise my right
to vote.   In vain did I protest that I knew nothing about
the papers, and could not legitimately vote either for or
against them.    But at last, not to hinder the march of the
ballot box round the table, I boldly lifted a white ball and
dropped it into the box.      On my right hand, the only
lady member of the Society had taken her seat.            She
was bright, intelligent and gracious in manner, a Russian,
Marussia Bakunin by name, who had married Professor
Oglialoro-Todaro of the Neapolitan University, and was
elected into the Society in recognition of the excellence

   A SOUVENIR OF VOTING AT NAPLES                          387
of her contributions   to chemistry.    While the voting was
going on I described to her our manner of balloting which
conceals on which side the vote is given.         I had never
before seen an actual black ball at a ballot, though familiar
                         "
with the practice of       black-balling."   I was presented
with both a white and a black ball as a souvenir of voting
in Italy.
   At the end of the meeting the President of the Royal
Society of Naples and Rector of the University, Pasquale
del Pezzo, Duca di Cajanello, took me all over the new
buildings of the University, then in course of recon
struction.     Some of the old, cramped and dilapidated
houses were still standing, side by side with premises
far more commodious, if not quite so picturesque.       When
the whole of the new buildings are completed the Univer
sity, installed with all modern conveniences for teaching,
will doubtless take a notable leap forward among the
educational establishments of Italy.       Another memento
of this visit to Naples reached me at the end of June, in the
shape of a formal letter from the Secretary of the Academy
of the Physical and Mathematical Sciences, enclosing a
postal order for fifteen lire due to me from this Academy
for my attendance at the meeting on 7th May.
   Before my travelling companions and I left Naples for
Rome a telegram arrived on the morning of 8 th May
announcing the death of King Edward.          The news came
as a great shock to the English community, who were
unaware of the seriousness of his illness.         The event
necessarily cast a gloom over the rest of our stay abroad.
It was touching to see, as we journeyed northward to
Rome, how promptly and widely our national loss evoked
Italian sympathy, as shown everywhere by flags flying at
half-mast.
   In Rome many entertainments had been arranged for
the    members of the International           Association   of
Academies ;      but these the British delegates          were
naturally prevented from attending.        We went to only
two functions — a reception by the King and Queen
of Italy and another by Queen Margherita.                Their

   388     PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
   Majesties were full of sympathy in the national loss and
  of admiration for the ability and sagacity of the late King.
  The King of Italy was much interested to find that the
  Director of Kew Gardens was one of our number, and in
  the course of conversation he showed a good deal of
  botanical knowledge.        There were some Italian plants
  of which specimens were wanting at Kew, and these he
  promised to procure and send.               Queen Margherita
  spoke  with  much    feeling  of the  Prince  of Wales, and ex
  pressed her confidence that he would be an excellent and
  devoted sovereign.
     The business of the International Association took up
  most of each morning during our stay in Rome, and some
  useful work was done.        But again, not the least valuable
  aspect of the meeting was the opportunity which it gave
  for friendly personal intercourse among the delegates.
 There was always a special pleasure in meeting those
 with whom we had come to form a warm attachment
 but whom we so seldom saw.           At the close of the meeting
 Professor Larmor and I started homeward the same even
 ing, and reached London two days before the King's
 funeral.    I found a missive from the Earl Marshal,
                                                        "
 summoning the President of the Royal Society             to assist
 at the interment of His late Most Sacred Majesty of
 blessed memory, in the Royal Chapel of St. George at
 Windsor."      This chapel is always an impressive place,
 but it probably never looks so overpowering as on the
 occasion of a royal interment.          Although the company
 was large, the   silence  and  stillness  of the scene were well
 maintained.     The feeling of sorrow for the great national
 loss seemed to be expressed on every face.         On the return
journey the train by which I travelled was so crowded
that, having lingered behind, I had difficulty in finding a
seat, till I heard my name called out from one of the car
riages as I passed its door.         There was still room in it
for one more.        I there found myself in the midst of a
group of notable politicians — Lord and Lady Crewe, Sir
 Edward Grey, Mr. Haldane, Colonel Seely, Mr. Robson
and Mr. Rufus Isaacs.

             DEATH OF KING EDWARD                             389
   A few weeks after the accession of King George V. to
the throne, it was again the duty of the Royal Society to
approach the Sovereign.          The President and one of the
Vice-Presidents attended a Court, and there presented
an address conveying the Society's sorrow for the death of
King Edward, and its wishes for the prosperity of the new
monarch and his Queen.              His Majesty, in a graceful
                 "
reply, said :      Your words of appreciation of the late
King   are very  welcome     to me.    He always regarded with
the deepest interest those scientific discoveries already
made which have been of such supreme importance in the
advancement of civilisation. I also have watched with close
attention the work of your Society ; and it is my sincere
hope that its prosperity will continue, and that a Fellow
ship of the Royal Society will always be esteemed one of
the highest honours which can be earned by devotion to
the cause of science.      I desire to thank you most cordially
for your congratulations on my accession to the Throne,
and to assure you of my sympathy and support in your
beneficent efforts for the promotion of natural knowledge.
I gladly accede to your request that I should inscribe my
name as Patron in your Charter-book."
                                          "                      "
   Embracing the whole domain of natural knowledge
within its purview, the Royal Society remained for more
than a hundred years the one great central organisation
for the prosecution of scientific research in Britain.        But
as interest in the study of Nature increased throughout the
community, the need was felt for the creation of other
centres wherein those who carried on original investiga
tion could meet for mutual discussion and assistance.
Especially was this need manifest at a distance from
London, for in those days travelling facilities were still
undeveloped, and a journey to the seat of the Royal Society
was often a serious undertaking, involving considerable
expense of time and monev.             One of the earliest local
societies to come into existence was the Royal Society of
Edinburgh, which from 1782 has been the chief scientific
community in Scotland.          A few years later the Royal Irish
Academy     was    established    in Dublin.     The continued

39o        PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
growth of the different branches of natural science
naturally led to the desire to form societies, in each of
which one of these branches might be specially cultivated.
When these societies began to spring up in London some
of the more influential Fellows of the Royal Society
regarded them as unnecessary, and encroaching on the
domain of the premier Society.            One of the earliest of
         "            "
these      upstarts      was the Geological Society, established
in 1 807.       When it proceeded to obtain a local habitation
in London, and to act as an independent body, the magnates
of the Royal Society were offended, and endeavoured to
have it made an assistant Society, subordinate to their
venerable institution.         The geologists, however, refused
to adopt any servitude of the kind.           They were careful
to show their local character by calling their body the
"
    Geological Society of London," leaving the geologists
of the rest of the country to form as many similar unions
as they found desirable.           The success of their resistance
opened      the  way   to  the gradual creation of the numerous
existing Societies, each devoted to the cultivation of one
department of science.             The opposition of the con
servative element       in  the Royal Society has long since died
out.      From the Presidential Chair the admission has been
made that the geologists, as well as the scientific world,
have good reason to rejoice over the wise and far-seeing
policy which left the Geological Society free to grow and
to develop its powers, untrammelled by any other body.1
The Royal Society has retained all her prestige, while her
scientific standing has been amply maintained by the
members of the younger societies whom generation after
generation she has elected into her Fellowship.
     So cordial have the relations long been between the
premier Society and the younger institutions that the
fight for independence by the geologists has been gener
ally forgotten.         But it gave the prestige of priority to
their Society, which is now universally acknowledged to
 belong not to London only, but to the whole British
    1 See Sir William Huggins' volume, The Royal Society, or Science in
 the State and in the Schools, p. 47.

    UNIVERSITIES AND ROYAL SOCIETY                      391
Empire.     For more than half    a  century I have been
bound to this Society by the closest personal relations.
It has twice elected me its President; in 1908, the
fiftieth year of my membership, it made me its Foreign
Secretary, and ever since that date it has annually
renewed this appointment — an honour which I most
gratefully appreciate.
    Between the Universities and the Royal Society there
have always been the friendliest relations.     It has even
been maintained by some Oxford men that the Society
was born in Wadham College.        When the tercentenary
of that College was celebrated in 19 10, the worthy
Warden, Mr. P. A. Wright Henderson, in his invitation
to the President of the Royal Society to attend the festival,
                       " the house and the room where the
asked him to come to
Society was, in one sense, founded." At the dinner in
                                                   "
the hall on 23rd June, in reply to the toast of      Letters
and Science," proposed by Mr. Frederic Harrison, I took
the opportunity to clear away the misapprehension about
the connection of the College with the Royal Society,
showing that the Society was really started in London.
Owing, however, to the political troubles of the time some
of its prominent members, for the sake of peace and quiet,
settled for a time in Oxford, where they were welcomed
by one of their fellow-members, the famous Dr. John
Wilkins, who was Warden of Wadham College, and who
did much to keep the fire of scientific research still
burning at Oxford.
    The Colleges both at Oxford and Cambridge continue
to maintain their ample hospitality,    and I recall many
pleasant social gatherings in their halls and common-
rooms.     One of the last of these, while I remained in
office at the Royal Society, took place at Oxford in con
nection with the seventh centenary of Roger Bacon.        In
 1913 a movement was set on foot to commemorate this
anniversary by erecting in Oxford, where he studied, a
statue to the memory of this early champion of experi
mental science ; by issuing a memorial volume of essays
dealing with various aspects of his work ; and, if possible,

392       PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
by arranging for the editing and publication of those of his
writings which have never been published.                   To carry
out these objects a large committee of sympathisers was
formed, and also a smaller executive committee, with the
President of the Royal Society as Chairman.                The com
memoration was successfully held on 1oth June, 19 14,
and was attended by a number of distinguished men from
the great libraries of Europe.          One of the most eminent
of these visitors, the delegate from the Vatican library,
was Signore Ratti, who, after holding some high ecclesias
tical appointments was in 1922 elected Pope of Rome as
Pius XI.1 A statue of Roger Bacon, by Mr. Hope
Pinker, was unveiled and presented to the University.
The interesting memorial volume was ready in time for
presentation to the subscribers.           The effort towards the
collection and publication of Roger Bacon's writings,
however, met with only partial success, and the outbreak
of war two months later put an abrupt postponement to
this as well as to so many other praiseworthy undertakings.
    During the same interval of years Cambridge Univer
sity too had its centennial celebrations.             Gonville and
Caius College commemorated its four-hundredth birth
day, and we had then the pleasure of listening to the long
but deeply interesting account given by the learned Dr.
Venn of Dr. John Caius, the accomplished Elizabethan
physician to whom the College was indebted for its
refoundation.        The University also celebrated the
hundredth anniversary of Charles Darwin.                  When the
Vice-Chancellor invited me to give the Rede Lecture
he informed me that it would form part of the proceed
ings at that anniversary.          Obviously the lecture should
in some way or other be connected with the illustrious
naturalist.     As Darwin began his scientific career in the
field of geology and was thence gradually drawn into the
wider domain which he afterwards made his own, I chose
   1 The Committee ceased to meet after
                                          1914, but by correspondence
among the members in March 1922 it was unanimously agreed to
send a Latin letter of felicitation to their former associate, the new
Pope.    His Holiness honoured us by sending a genial reply, also in
Latin, dated from the Vatican, 1oth October, 1922.

    FOUNDATION OF BRITISH ACADEMY                           393
to dwell upon the extent and bearings of the geological
work of his earlier years on his evolutional studies.1
    It was during the five years of my Presidentship that
the Royal Society saw the creation of the British Academy
— the most important addition to our literary societies
which has been made in recent years.          This new institu
tion arose in the following way.       At the meetings of the
International Association of Academies the Royal Society,
representing only Science, had only one vote, while
foreign Academies, which had not only a science side but
also a literary side, had two votes.         It was seen that
it would be of eminent advantage that the humanistic
studies of Britain should also be represented in the Inter
national Association.      Accordingly a few leaders in the
higher departments       of  literature consulted the Royal
Society as to the steps which should be taken to secure
this representation.     There was no existing incorporation
which could be selected as the proper body to be a member
of the International Association.        Some Fellows of the
Royal Society suggested that if a new institution were
created for the purpose it might be linked with the
Royal Society, somewhat in the manner in which the five
Academies in Paris are comprised in one great body as the
Institut de France.     But the difficulties in the way of such
an affiliation were found to be insuperable.        The British
Academy was accordingly founded as a wholly inde
pendent body.       But it had no funds beyond the sub
scriptions of its members, nor any premises in which to
establish itself and hold its meetings.           Under these
serious drawbacks one of the leading men in the new-born
Academy came to me to enquire whether, as at least a
temporary expedient, his Academy might be allowed to
meet in the Royal Society's apartments in Burlington
House. Having keen sympathy with the creation of this
new institution for the promotion of the higher literary
studies, I brought this request before my Council, which
willingly gave its consent, and the meetings of the British
   1" Charles Darwin as Geologist," the Rede Lecture, 24th June,
1909.   Cambridge University Press.

394      PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
Academy have ever since been held in the rooms of the
Royal Society.
    Not long after the infant British Academy had found a
welcome home in the rooms of the Royal Society, the
following letter, dated 21st November, 1909, reached me
from Mr. S. H. Butcher, one of the founders of the
Academy :
    "
      This time it is the Classical Association, not the
British Academy for which I write.          The Council has
always felt indebted to you for the interest you have shown
in our work, and now our hope is that you may consent
to be nominated President for 19 10.        The sole duty of
the President is to deliver an address during his year of
office at the general annual meeting.      That meeting will
be held not in 19 10 but in January 191 1 in Liverpool.
    " We
           are specially anxious to make it plain that our
Association is in no sense antagonistic to scientific teach
ing and study. The more consultation and exchange of
views there is between classical scholars and men of
science, the better, we believe, it will be for both.  There
is no one who could have so mediating an influence as
yourself.    It is our earnest hope and wish that you may
accede to our request, and do what we think would be a
public service. . . . We only ask for one public utterance
— no Council meetings to be attended. Your acceptance
will win our warm recognition and gratitude."
    When I read the first paragraph of this letter it seemed
that the writer must have addressed it to me by mistake
for some classical scholar.      It was true that a winter
sojourn in Rome, together with the possession of more
leisure time than the life in the Geological Survey afforded,
had rekindled my early fondness for Latin literature.       I
had joined the Classical Association and attended with
much interest the meetings of its Council, though merely as
a sympathetic onlooker.      I had gone back to my favourite
Latin authors with much satisfaction ; but I had no
pretensions to classical scholarship, and no one could feel
himself more completely unqualified to preside over a
company of classical scholars.       On full consideration,

 ADDRESS TO CLASSICAL ASSOCIATION                              395
however, it appeared to me that    if, as Mr. Butcher pressed
earnestly, my coming forward as an avowed supporter of
classical training would help the cause he had so much at
heart, and with which    I   cordially sympathised, my duty
would be to take my courage       in  both hands and agree to
his request.
   Interest     Latin literature and archaeology was in the
               in
air at this time.   It   took formal concrete shape on 3rd
June,  19  10, when a   public meeting was held in London
at which   a new Society was created for the promotion of
Roman studies, and to cover field similar to that occupied
                              a
by the Hellenic Society in Greek archaeology, art and
history.    This fresh institution, launched successfully,
has continued to increase in membership and usefulness.
As one of the original Vice-Presidents and      a  member of
the Council    I have been much interested in taking part
in its proceedings, and  I    continue to look forward to        a
future for  it not less prosperous than that of its Hellenic
sister.
   In considering the theme that might most usefully be
chosen as the subject of the address which was to be made
to the Classical Association,  I    sought one that might       in
some degree connect classical studies with the scientific
pursuits which had been my own chief occupation            life.
                                                          in
As student and lover of Nature, had found enjoyment
   a                                   I
in trying to trace among the authors of antiquity the
mental attitude with which they regarded the landscapes
amidst which they lived, and in thus seeking to ascertain
how far they expressed feelings that were akin to or at
variance with those which prevail in our own day.
Eventually selected as the subject of my discourse the
            I
evidence from Latin literature of the extent to which the
Romans have expressed an appreciation of Nature, and
the forms   in  which this appreciation found expression in
written words during the later decades of the Republic
and the first century of the Empire — the golden age of
Latin literature.    Nothing more than     a  mere outline of
this ample field could be comprised within            a single
Address.     But the tracing of this outline showed how

396        PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
 abundant was the material for further treatment, and
 before the preparation of the address was finished I had
 resolved to continue the prosecution of the subject, and
 during the following year, as the result of this pleasant
 employment, the volume on The Love of Nature among
the Romans took shape in my -hands.
    The Address to the Classical Association, and the book
 which grew out of    it,are intimately connected with one of
 the saddest times in my life.          Lord Collins and Mr.
 Butcher, to whom    I   looked up as my classical sponsors,
 and for whom    I    had an affectionate regard, both died
 before the date    of the meeting at Liverpool.         Buta   far
heavier blow fell upon me      in  the tragic death of my only
 son.    This bereavement came only four weeks before           I
had to appear at Liverpool.      I    determined, however, not
to fail in fulfilling the duty which   I    had undertaken, and
 nothing could exceed the sympathy and kindness of my
 classical friends in freeing me from most of the duties of
President.      In like manner  I    felt that the wisest course
 for me would be to continue to perform all the service due
 to the Royal Society and the Geological Society.             As a
further distraction from my grief,        as  soon as it  was  pos
sible,I    sat down to write the volume about the Roman
 appreciation of Nature, planned the year before, hoping
 that steady work of this kind would keep me from
 brooding on the premature extinction of          a   dear young
life, brilliant and full of promise.       [See Appendix.]
  It   was not until the spring of the year 191       3 that was
                                                           I
able to revisit Italy.    After full consideration of the sub
ject,
    I     had resolved to visit and carefully study the land
scapes amidst which     a  few of the Roman poets were born,
or where they lived in their maturer years, with the view
of discovering how far any influence from their surround
ings could be traced    in  their poetry.  It   was my intention
to return year after year, and to begin with the poetry of
 Horace in one region and of Catullus in another.               I
induced my colleague, Sir Joseph Larmor, to accompany
me    in the first year of this enquiry, when, as we had no
congress or other official duties to attend to, we could

           SULMONA AND THE POET OVID                                397
  arrange our movements from day to day.                After a short
  stay in Rome,1 during which I made a careful study of
  Horace's Sabine valley, we went on to Naples, chiefly for
  the purpose of making a traverse of the mountainous
 region between the Campania and the central mass of the
 Apennine chain. I had long wished to explore this
 region of the Abruzzi, with the view of gaining a general
 impression of its scenery and, if possible, of the relations
 between the forms of the surface and the underlying geo
 logical structures of the Apennines.             I believed that the
 line of railway to Sulmona, one of the great masterpieces
 of Italian engineering skill, would furnish me with not a
 little of the information desired.           After creeping up the
 valley   of  the  River  Volturno,    this   line winds among the
 tortuous depressions of the mountains, crossing many
 valleys and ravines on lofty viaducts, and piercing the
 ridges between the valleys by tunnels and cuttings that
 lay bare the rocks, until it eventually reaches a height of
 some 2000 feet.         We halted for a night at Sulmona, a
 little town some 1300 feet above the sea, and famous
 as the birthplace of Ovid.            As this poet's verses had
 fascinated me in my school days, it was interesting to note
 the physical features which he accurately enumerated in
 his allusions to his early home.           In summer the valley is
green and fertile, with many a clear rivulet coursing down
the declivities ; but, when the hills are thickly covered
with snow, the place must sall deserve its ancient renown
for the coldness of its winter climate.            It was the abund
ance of the running water that seems to have been the
feature of his birthplace that dwelt most vividly in
the poet's memory.          He alludes to his birth among the
"
    watery Peligni," and when he revisited his paternal
fields it was the salubrity due to their many streamlets
    1 It was an added
                      pleasure to this visit to Rome to meet there my
second daughter Elsie, who with one of her school friends was
travelling through Italy. She had made a special study of Italian
history, and came to the country with a fund of historical knowledge
which greatly increased her interest in what she saw.     I could act as
her guide among the pagan antiquities, but in the tangled complex
of Italian civil and ecclesiastical annals she was my teacher.         I
joined her again at Naples and on the homeward journey at Perugia.

398       PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
that    chiefly claimed   his  praise.  He wrote    that  as
Mantua was proud of Virgil and Verona of Catullus, so he
would be called the glory of the Pelignian race.        The
little town has preserved the memory of its musical poet
by naming after him one of its streets, the Corso Ovidio,
and by a mediaeval statue of him.
    The profusion of running water in the Sulmona valley
awakens other thoughts in the modern visitor, who sees
in it an immense volume of mechanical force running to
waste.     The natives have made a beginning indeed in the
utilisation of this source of energy, by using it to light
Sulmona by electricity.      But the time may come when
this upland valley, with its abundant source of force
utilised, will lose its quiet beauty and be turned into a
busy hive of factories and industry, or, as has happened in
North Italy, may be converted into a lake from which the
stored up energy may be obtained that will work some of
the railways of Southern Italy.
    From Sulmona we struck westward by Aquila to
Assergi, in full view of the whole range of the Gran Sasso
d'ltalia. This imposing mountain rises in vast grey walls
from the upland plain to a height of 9585 feet above the
sea, plentifully streaked with snow, and forming a worthy
crown to the whole Apennine chain.         It was too early
in the season to attempt to climb to the summit, even if
there had been time for the ascent ; but to have come
close enough to scan every striking feature on the front of
the great peak that overlooks the whole of Central and
Southern Italy was well worth the time and trouble of the
excursion.
    My companion and I went on to Venice, where we
unearthed my old friend Horatio F. Brown who, though
a leal Scot, and laird of one of the most beautiful estates
near Edinburgh, had for years buried himself among the
Venetian archives.     Having only recently returned from
the Lago di Garda, which was a favourite retreat of his
and whither we were now bound, he could not at that
time go back with us, but he promised to come with
me another time, which fortunately he was able to do

             THE HOME OF CATULLUS                           399
 in the following year.     My main object in this detour was
to visit Sirmione, the home that Catullus loved, at the
southern end of the Lago di Garda.           We halted on the
way at Verona, the birthplace of this tenderest of Roman
poets.     With the thought of him in one's mind, and with
some of his inimitable lines on one's lips, the hours spent
in this old Roman provincial town brought him vividly
into memory.       The swift Adige still rushes under the
arches of the antique bridge, and the eye rests on the same
wide, fair and mountain-bound landscape which he loved
and to which he could so fondly return,
          Multas per gentes et multa per aequora vectus.
The few hours which we spent on Sirmione enabled us to
take a general survey of the topography of the island, and
to walk round its coast on the flat platform which in the
course of centuries has been eroded by the waves of the
lake out of the limestone rocks.          We sat for a while
among the ruins of the villa perched upon the top of the
northern cliff where perhaps stood the poet's dwelling-
place.    The morning was remarkably fine, and the noble
array   of  mountains that form the background of the
landscape could not have been seen more impressively.
Every peak and crest gleamed clear and sharp against the
blue sky and the distant white clouds which rose in
splendid towers of cumulus above the plains.             On our
way back to Desenzano, in an open boat with oars, we
were overtaken midway by a severe thunderstorm with
heavy continuous rain against which we could only
partially protect ourselves.       But the grandeur of the
scene fascinated us.      The vividness of the lightning, the
loudness of the thunder, the thousand reverberations of
each peal from the mountains, the inky blackness of the
                      "
lake lashed by the       big rain," in contrast to its smooth
caerulean    blue in the morning, combined to form a
scene which will never be forgotten.
    During my tenure of the Presidentship, at the dinners
of the Royal Society Club I used to see much of Sir
Andrew Noble. He had purchased a large estate at the

4oo      PRESIDENT OF ROYAL SOCIETY
upper end of Loch Fyne and built the mansion of Ardkin-
glas, which he liked to fill with his friends.        In the year
1
  910 he included me as one of his guests, and from that
time onward, as almost one of the family, I was welcomed
back every year.      My daughter Lucy was soon included
in the invitation, and these annual visits, with the ever
closer-drawn friendship of Lady and Miss Noble, became
a cherished landmark in our year.           Sir Andrew repaired
and enlarged the picturesque old Castle of Dunderave
on the opposite side of the loch, which, after his death,
became the summer residence of his widow and daughter,
who continue there the hereditary hospitality.            Amidst
scenery so impressive on every side, and with the charms
of music and pleasant talk, the days at Dunderave were
memorable.       But, as Ovid musically sang,
          Tempora Iabuntur, tacitisque senescimus annis.
    The  five years of the Presidentship of the Royal Society
had slipped away, and on St. Andrew's Day, 30th Novem
ber, 1913, I resigned the Chair to Sir William Crookes,
who was elected to succeed me.            In my final Address,
after thanking the Fellows, the officers and the members
of the permanent staflF for the uniform helpfulness and
cordiality with which they had assisted me in the discharge
of the multiform duties of President, I added, " these last
five years have been to me a singularly full and happy
time, the memory of which will ever be a delightful
retrospect."
    A few weeks later an unusual and most friendly com
pliment was paid to me by the American Ambassador, the
illustrious and much regretted Walter H. Page.              I first
met him soon after his arrival in London at a small dinner
given in his honour by Major Leonard Darwin at the
Athenaeum Club. As we then sat next each other we had
much pleasant converse, and an intimacy was begun which
soon became a warm friendship.           He had learnt that my
birthday    was the same   day  as  that of  the President of the
United States, and when the day came round I received
from him the following friendly note :

               A BIRTHDAY FLAG                         401
                       6    Grosvenor Square, W.,
                                 28th December, 191 3.
  Dear Sir Archibald,
          I have my country's flag flying on the roof
to-day, for it is the President's birthday ; and I hope
you will not object to my associating you in my thought
and in honour and respect with the President, since you
also are entitled to great thanks for being born into a
world that you have made wiser and merrier by your
presence and labour.
  May you remain in        it,   and keep young for many   a
happy Christmas.
                Very heartily yours,
                                       Walter H.   Page.
   AG.                           ?c

                       CHAPTER          XIII
               RETIREMENT       IN THE COUNTRY
                            (1914-1924)
 The    business  of the Royal     Society having been for ten
 continuous years my chief occupation, its complete
 cessation involved a rearrangement of the daily routine
 of life. There was now no need to reside in London.
 Some years before this time I had acquired a piece of land
on the hill to the south of the village of Haslemere in
 Surrey, and had built on it a house that was planned by
my wife and daughters, commanding a view of some
twelve miles across a richly wooded landscape to the blue
uplands of the Selborne country.           The same group of
artists laid out the ground with much taste and skill, con
verting the original bare meadow into a garden that now
has its crops and its shade.         To this pleasant country
abode we eventually brought all our household effects,
and made it our permanent home.              The train service
being excellent, it was always easy to go to London for the
day and return in the evening, until for me the infirmities
of age made railway travelling difficult.
    It was at this quiet retreat on the last day of 1 9 1 3 that a
                                                             " the
special messenger brought me the intimation that
King had great pleasure in conferring upon me the Order
of Merit, in recognition of the services rendered by me to
my Country and to the world at large, in the Science of
Geology." As in this most exclusive of the Orders the
Sovereign retains in his own hands the bestowal of this
honour, I deeply appreciated it as the King's personal
gift.
                               402

 ROYAL SOCIETY'S PORTRAIT GALLERY                        403
    It has become    the  kindly custom of the Fellows of
 the  Royal Society to preserve visible memorials of their
 Presidents in the form of portraits in oil, which they add
 to the interesting historical canvasses that form so con
 spicuous a feature on the walls of Burlington House.      In
 my case, the commission was given to Mr. R. G. Eves, one
 of the ablest among the younger artists of the day. The
 portrait when completed was reproduced in photo
 gravure, of which each subscriber received a copy.
 About the same time another personal memorial, connect
 ing me with the Geological Survey, was set on foot by my
 old colleague, then Director of that Service, Sir Aubrey
 Strahan.    A subscription, started at home and abroad,
 enabled him to place in the hands of Professor LanteVi,
 head of the Royal College of Art at South Kensington, a
commission to execute my bust in marble, to be added to
 the gallery of geologists at the Jermyn Street Museum.
At the inauguration of this fine work of art, a duplicate
 by the same sculptor was presented to me, which is now
 in the Library of my alma mater, the University of
                                                " a
 Edinburgh, where it was welcomed as                speaking
likeness."
    In the spring of 19 14 I lost no time in returning to
Italy, with the hope of being able to repeat the visit in
succeeding years, making pilgrimages to the homes of a
few Latin poets.     I began my explorations by a renewed
and more thorough study of the valley of the Licenza
among the Sabine Hills.        This visit convinced me that
there cannot be any       reasonable   doubt that the little
picturesque glen of that stream is Horace's vallis reducta,
and that the site of the villa, which has been unearthed, is
the only likely spot on which his dwelling could be placed.
It is quite conceivable, however, as Professor Sellar
pointed out, that the tessellated floors and other evidence
of a large mansion may have been the work of a later
occupant, who, though he may have been proud to possess
the home of the Sabine bard, required an ampler and more
luxurious abode than that which sufficed for Horace.
    While in Rome I attended a meeting of the Accademia

4o4     RETIREMENT IN THE COUNTRY
dei Lincei ; went over the new building of the British
School at Rome with the Director and Mrs. Strong, as the
Committee in London, of which I am a member, had
asked me to do ; lunched at the Embassy and had a
pleasant talk with Sir Rennel Rodd, our Ambassador,
about the arrangements of the School ; spent an hour or
two with my old friend Count Balzani ; had the archi
tectural structure of the Baths of Diocletian expounded
on the spot by Commendatore Rivoira ; accompanied
Signore Boni in an underground excursion to see his
Mundus on the Palatine ; visited the recently disclosed
Mithraeum under the foundations of the Church of San
Clemente ; motored with Mrs. Mond and party to Porta
Prima, and after a busy fortnight left for the Lago di
Garda, in order to make a renewed and more detailed
study of the home of Catullus at Sirmio.   This journey to
                                                " to see fair
the north was broken by a halt of two nights,
Padua, nursery of arts."     My pilgrim feet naturally first
led me to the University, which, although Gibbon spoke
                       "
of it as, in his time, a dying taper," is still, after some
seven centuries, a centre of educational life.     I saw the
frescos of Andrea Mantegna and Giotto, meditated for a
while by the shrine of St. Anthony of Padua, and peram
bulated the streets, not without thoughts of the delightful
                                                       " The
Paduan society with which Shakespeare has filled
Taming of the Shrew." Since my visit, Mr. Horatio F.
Brown, at the request of the University of Padua, has
edited a list of the English and Scottish pilgrims who,
during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, inscribed
their names in the Academic Register.      It appears that
between the years 1 61 8 and 1765 no fewer than 2038 left
their signatures in the volume.    It does not appear how
many were actual students, working at the University,
                                                     "
probably a large proportion were only doing the        grand
tour," and visited the renowned University of Padua as a
matter of course.
    I had arranged with Mr. Brown that we should meet at
Desenzano, and make the visit to Sirmione together.       We
had taken our seats in one of the carriages of the short

            VISITS TO ITALY RESIGNED                       405
railway which connects Desenzano with the main line,
and in answer to my query about the progress of his
researches among the Venetian archives, he launched into
a vituperation of one of the mediaeval secretaries who
wrote so illegibly as to give him a great deal of trouble
which would doubtless continue until replaced by the
                                    "
handwriting of his successor.         I wish he were dead !"
exclaimed Mr. Brown, as he thought of it all.            There
happened    to have  come  into the  carriage an  English lady
who had evidently been listening to our conversation, and
when that wish was loudly ejaculated, she broke into the
                           " Don't
conversation by asking              you think that is a most
                                 "
uncharitable wish of yours ?          The Venetian annalist,
with his keen sense of humour, was taken aback by this
emphatic reproof, and had evidently much difficulty in
restraining his laughter, when I intervened and assured the
kindly questioner that the individual referred to must have
been in his grave already for several centuries.
   At Sirmione, where my companion was received as a
welcome guest in the little hotel, we spent three days on
the islet ; walking over the whole of its surface, and boat
ing all round it to see the details of the coast-line, together
with the little caves excavated by the waves of the lake.
I found that the level of the water was several feet higher
than it had been in the previous year, for the beach or
platform on which I then walked round it was now under
water.    The force of the waves generated by a violent
northerly gale, blowing along the whole length of the lake,
must be a powerful agent in the waste of the rocky shores
and islets.    Before starting homeward I sailed up to the
northern fjord-like end of the lake, and was greatly
interested in the many proofs of active erosion that meet
the eye.    Garda is probably one of the best lakes in Europe
in which to study the effects of lacustrine waves.        But I
did not let geological problems prevent me from trying to
group in my mind the various natural features of the land
scape most likely to appeal to the poetic eye of Catullus.
   The outbreak of the Great War in August 1 9 14 put an
abrupt end to my dream of further Italian journeys.           I

 4o6     RETIREMENT IN THE COUNTRY
 had gathered, however, material enough to form the sub
ject of an essay on each of two Latin poets.   As long as the
 reminiscences had all their freshness I wrote them down.
                 "                     " formed an article in
 The paper on Catullus at Sirmio
 the Quarterly Review in December 1 914 and that on
 " Horace at his Sabine Farm "
                                     appeared in the same
journal   for April 1916.
    As the summer of the year 19 14 advanced and the
 political sky grew more and more ominous, the portents
 recalled in my home the anxious days in 1870 when
 France took up the sword with alacrity and, as we then
thought, not without provocation from Germany.           But
 now, while France and Great Britain were striving earnestly
to prevent any rupture of the peace, vast armies were
mustering on the borders of France and Belgium, and we
knew that some of our cousins in France would be in the
fight, should war be declared.        It was therefore with
added personal interest and anxiety that we followed the
 early stages of the commotion.       The stemming of the
German torrent by the Battle of the Marne was nowhere
welcomed with more earnest thankfulness than in our
little France-loving household.      By my daughter Elsie,
who had been for some months in sadly failing health, the
daily bulletins were awaited and scanned with such dis
 tressing anxiety that the malady from which she suffered
 seemed to be given fresh hold on her, cancelling all the
progress that the summer had brought.         The end came
very suddenly   ;  after only a few days  in bed she died on
the 23rd February, 191 5.        A more loving, gentle and
sympathetic soul could not be, and this sweetness of
disposition was combined with a love of literature, more
especially in the domain of history, which made her a
charming companion.         Her death was a grievous loss
to our little family circle, and most of all to her invalid
mother, who in her increasing feebleness clung to Elsie
as her constant help and joy.
    A few days later another unlooked-for family bereave
ment befell us.    My brother James died in Edinburgh on
 1st March after a brief illness.   He succeeded me in the

                DEATHS IN THE FAMILY                       407
 Chair of Geology at the Edinburgh University, and held
 it with success for thirty-two years, only retiring from it
 in the previous year.   He had well maintained the renown
 of the Scottish Geological School, and the loss of his kindly
 nature and genial companionship was mourned by a wide
 circle of friends.
     My wife, who had never recovered from the shock of
 her son's death, was still further broken down in spirit by
 the loss of Elsie.    Though wasted to a shadow and too
 weak to leave her bed, she continued to take a keen interest
 in the progress of the war.     Otherwise her thoughts were
 mostly in another world with her hopes of meeting again
 the dear ones she had lost.       She lingered in life until
 2 1 st January, 19 16.   The inevitable end had long been
 in sight, but it could not come at last without a pang of
 poignant sorrow to us all, softened only by the thought
 that to her it brought a release from her prolonged suffer
 ings.     She had been the light of my life, the gentle and
 warmly sympathetic sharer of all my joys and sorrows ;
 and it was with feelings, not only of the keenest grief, but
 of the deepest gratitude and affection that, in accordance
 with her oft-expressed desire, I laid her ashes in Brook-
 wood Cemetery, in the same grave with those of her
 beloved son.
    To the beginning of 1 9 1 6 belongs the marriage of my
youngest daughter, Gabrielle, to Harold J. Behrens, an
officer of a Territorial Battalion of the West Yorkshire
Regiment.       When he went to the front, she returned to
our Haslemere home, and her son, Derick, was born
there in February 1917.        After the war they settled at
Ilkley,   Yorkshire, where,  as long as I was able to travel,
I appeared on an annual visit, and Derick and I became
fast friends.      Now, as often as possible, he spends a
week     or two with me at Haslemere ; and in the intervals
between his visits, he sends me letters full of affection
and humour, expressed in a phonetic spelling of his own
device.      It is one of my greatest joys to watch the
expansion of this young mind, and to picture the future
of which he gives such promise. (See Plate II.)

4o8       RETIREMENT IN THE COUNTRY
    In   the course   of the war peaceful countryside like that
                                   a
of Haslemere underwent a rapid and widespread change.
The familiar idlers disappeared. Work of some kind
was found for everybody.         Committees were formed for
different helpful and benevolent purposes.           In the end
every available man in the parish was discovered and
marched off to the military or other service which he
could do either at home or abroad.          Not a few of them
went to the front, where some sixty-two lost their lives.
Large military camps and hospitals were created a few
miles to the east and west of the village, which were mainly
filled with Canadian soldiers in training for active service.
The variety of uniforms to be met with everywhere on
the country roads was a never-ending source of wonder
ment to the native rustic.        Especially noteworthy were
the kilts, bare legs and variety of tartans of the Colonial
Scottish regiments.        The Surrey peasantry had never
seen or imagined such a uniform.             Even a travelled
Englishmen could not but start,            threading one of the
                                       if,
                                       in
narrow lanes between high hedgerows, he came unex
pectedly upon     a  dozen of these kilted warriors from the
other side of the globe.
     Haslemere
                                                 " Educational
                   possesses   an    admirable
Museum," founded and maintained                  bythe eminent
surgeon, Sir Jonathan Hutchinson, for the purpose of
interesting the population of the district in the common
objects of the countryside, and teaching them the elements
of natural history.      This institution during the War was
a   great centre of attraction to the soldiers in the surround
ing camps.        On    aSunday afternoon two hundred of
them might be seen intently poring over the contents
of the cases, and reading the descriptive labels.            Sir
Jonathan died in 19 13, but without having endowed the
 Museum.        In February 19 14, at        a public meeting
specially   called for the  purpose,   aCommittee    was formed
with the view of endeavouring to collect funds for            a
permanent endowment.           The outbreak of the War six
months later put an abrupt end to this endeavour.            All
that the Committee could then do was to gather funds

Fellow-Students, IIaslrmrrh, October 1923
                                            -^
                                          <U+25B2>


              HASLEMERE " MUSEUM "                       409
 enough each year for the annual upkeep of the Museum,
 and this arrangement has been followed up to the present
 time.    Having been elected Chairman of the Museum
 Committee at the start, I have remained at that post, and
 with my colleagues have so far succeeded in raising,
 with more or less difficulty, each year the £4.00 or £500
 needed for the efficient upkeep of the institution.
    Besides the Museum, Haslemere has a local Natural
 History Society which was founded some five and thirty
years ago and continues in active life.       The members
 annually  elect me their President, and I have   given them
 an occasional address.     At one of their anniversaries I
 discoursed on English science and its literary caricaturists
 in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, contrasting
the treatment of the men of science in those times with
their position to-day, and bringing home to the present
                        " Virtuosi " had then to endure at
generation what the
the hands of the more noted literary men, illustrated
with quotations from the writings of these critics.       On
another occasion, when the Shakespeare tercentenary was
                                      "
approaching, I gave an address on The Birds of Shake
speare," which a few months later was published as an
illustrated little volume from the admirable press of
Messrs. MacLehose of Glasgow.
    From the outside world there still came to me in my
rural retirement requests to undertake literary work of
different kinds.    Thus at the beginning of 1916 my
associates of the Royal Society Club appealed to me to
prepare a new and fuller history of this Club than was
contained in an earlier pamphlet which was nearly out of
print. The whole archives of the Club were put into my
hands, and in looking through them I soon saw that they
contained ample material for what was desired.        Having
now no official position that demanded my time, and
realising that a volume of great interest in connection
with the history of the Royal Society might be written
from the Club's journals and papers, I accepted the pro
posal of the Club.      It came to me at a time of deep
domestic sorrow, and offered the kind of employment that

 4  to    RETIREMENT IN THE COUNTRY
 could best distract one's thoughts.                 Seldom has it been
 my good       fortune    to find  a  piece   of  literary work so con
 genial as this.        From beginning to end it never lost its
 attraction ; it occupied most of my time throughout the
 year and brought me, as it were, into the social life of
 successive generations of the Fellows of the Royal Society
 and their friends during two centuries.                      The result
 appeared      in  the  summer     of  191 7   as  an   octavo volume of
 500 pages,       with    upwards    of  three   dozen     of portraits of
 men described or referred to in the text.1
     Having long been impressed with the value of the
 writings of John Michell, Woodwardian Professor of
 Geology at Cambridge in 1 762, to which, as it seemed to
 me, but scant justice had been done, and having had
 occasion to make enquiries about him in connection with
 his visits to the Royal Society Club, I was led to pursue
 these enquiries, and to collect all the information about his
 career which could now be obtained.                    These materials,
 together     with     such  illustrative    text    as  I could supply,
 made a little volume which the Cambridge University
 Press printed and published.                Sir Joseph Larmor was
 good enough         to  contribute    an  appreciation of the value
of Michell's papers on astronomical subjects. On the
appearance of the book in June 1 9 1 8 the present occupant
of the Woodwardian Chair, Professor Marr, sent me a
                                               " It is with
friendly letter in which he wrote :                           great satis
faction that I now find such full justice done to the work
of one of my predecessors in the Woodwardian Chair.
Though I had long admired Michell's geological work,
I had no notion how big a man he really was until I read
your book."
     Having now withdrawn from the busy world to spend
my last years in the quiet of the country, it was with no
little surprise that on 1st December, 191 9, I received a
letter from Mr. Ian Macpherson, head of the Irish Office,
                           "
informing me that the Government proposes to appoint
   1 Its full title is Annals of the Royal Society Club : the Record of a
London Dining Club in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries. The
portraits were obtained from a large collection of prints in the
possession of the Royal Society.

 COMMISSION ON DUBLIN UNIVERSITY                        41 1
 a  Royal Commission of Inquiry into Dublin University,
 similar to that which has been established for Oxford and
 Cambridge, and would feel greatly indebted to you if you
 would kindly consent to act as Chairman of the Commis
 sion." I have already expressed in the foregoing chapters
 my admiration and affection for Trinity College, Dublin,
 which for some nineteen years, during my frequent visits
 to Ireland, was to me always a haven of quiet rest and
 kindly friendship.   If it were possible for me to render
any service to that venerable and admirable institution, I
 could have no greater pleasure than to give it.      Yet I
could not but doubt whether a man about to enter on his
eighty-fifth year ought to accept so onerous an engage
ment.     Mr. Macpherson was good enough to say at the
end of his letter that he would be happy to see me at the
 Irish Office to discuss the proposal.     Having to be in
London two days after the receipt of his letter, I had the
opportunity of talking the matter over with him ; Lord
French, the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, being also
 present.   The outcome of the interview was that I agreed
to accept the duty.
    This Royal Commission met in April 1920 in Trinity
College, Dublin, where in the course of a few days we
heard statements by the Provost, Bursar, Fellows, Pro
fessors   and others ; made a personal examination of
class-rooms, and of the accommodation provided for the
different schools, and also visited the Botanic Gardens and
the Observatory of Dunsink.         We likewise met for a
dozen of times at the Irish Office in London.        As the
result of our enquiries and deliberations we came unani
mously to the conviction that the existing resources of the
University of Dublin, and of its single College, Trinity,
were no longer adequate for its needs.    We recommended
that they should be increased from public funds by an
immediate non-recurrent grant of £113,000, and an
annual subsidy of £49,000.         Much has happened in
Ireland since we finally signed our Report on 12th
November, 1920.       It remains to be seen how far the
Irish Free State will be disposed or able to carry out

412     RETIREMENT IN THE COUNTRY
our recommendations. In an impressive Conclusion the
                       "
Report affirmed that this venerable seminary, generation
atter generation, has continued to train men of all creeds
and classes for the business of life, sending forth also
distinguished men of affairs, brilliant scholars and emi
nent men of science.        Up till now this beneficent and
uninterrupted labour     in  the interests of the whole com
munity has been accomplished entirely on its own re
sources.     But the great and manifold changes consequent
upon the War have made it no longer possible for the
College to maintain the same high standard of University
training without appealing to the State for material
assistance."
   When the journey to London was becoming increas
ingly difficult owing to the advance of old age, I felt it to
be my duty, as representative of the Royal Society on the
Governing Body of Harrow School, to resign with regret
the post which I had filled with pleasure to myself for
thirty years.     In his reply Lord George Hamilton,
                                                    " All the
Chairman of the Board, was so good as to say :
Governors will greatly regret the severance of your con
nection with them.       You have been for so many years
their guide and mainstay in all questions relating to the
teaching of Science that we shall feel quite adrift without
you.    Still I think you may leave the Governing Body
with the knowledge that it is mainly due to your influence
that the improvement in Science teaching during your
tenure of office has placed Harrow quite in the fore
front of our great Public Schools."         Had it not been,
however, for a sue cession of excellent science masters at
Harrow, beginning with Mr. Ashford, now head of the
Naval College at Dartmouth, the acknowledged eminence
of Harrow in the teaching of science would never have
been attained.     From time to time I visited the science
department, had long conferences with the senior science
master as to the needs of his department, and was always
delighted with the enthusiasm which he and his colleagues
showed in their work.
   Pleasant it is to continue the correspondence which for

                             VALE    !
                                                             413
many years I have enjoyed with scientific friends all over
the world, though year by year the number of these friends
decreases.    Pleasant too to be remembered by the Societies
and Academies who long years ago enrolled my name
among those whom they wished to honour, and who still
send me the records of their doings.          The recognition
amply shown to me in this way by my friends in France
has always been specially appreciated.            Towards the
end of 1 9 1 7 they conferred on me the highest distinction
                                        " Associé
which they have to bestow — the                    Etranger de
l'lnstitut de France," for it is a national compliment, being
approved by a decree with the sign manual of the Presi
dent of the French Republic.         It was accompanied with
a sheaf of telegrams and letters of congratulation from
my kind-hearted French friends.          The vacancy which I
thus filled had arisen from the death of my old friend and
correspondent E. Suess : and the honour of the election
was increased in my estimation by my being deemed
worthy to succeed him.
    Two years later yet another link was added to the chain
of kindly relations that has long bound me to France.
The Council of the University of Strasbourg, once more
restored, with Alsace and Lorraine, to France, arranged to
hold a festival at the celebration of this restoration, and
to bestow the degree of Honorary Doctor of the Univer
sity upon a number of foreign men of science.           Though
I was unable to attend the festival in person, the diploma
was   duly sent to me.
    I close this last page of the Record of a long life, grateful
to   God that having been privileged to retain a measure
of bodily health, with mind and memory still undimmed,
 I can pass my last days in a home of quiet and restful
beauty, tended with all the care which a daughter's love
can devise.

                             APPENDIX
              IN MEMORY OF RODERICK GEIKIE
 Born at Boroughfield,     the home of his parents at Edinburgh, on
 nth April,   1874,  Roderick spent the first eight years of his life, in
 a happy infancy and childhood, with his sister Lucy.          Under the
 care of an intelligent and affectionate governess they were well
 grounded in elementary education and learnt to enjoy country
 walks.   After the family removed to London in 1883 he was
 eventually placed in Rev. Morgan Brown's preparatory school at
 Hunstanton in Norfolk. His sojourn for several years on that
coast was beneficial to him both in mind and body.
   At Easter 1887 he entered Harrow School as a home boarder.
 In the belief that the earlier years of a boy's career at a large public
school are best spent by him living under the parental roof, we had
provisionally removed to Harrow, where we had a house and large
garden, at which his friends among his class-fellows were frequent
visitors. Eventually, however, as we realised that the full advan
tages of the school can hardly be enjoyed by a home boarder, we
placed him in the house of F. E. Marshall, of which he advanced
to be head in 1891.      He became the Head of Harrow School in
September 1892, and retained that position till he left for Cam
bridge at the end of the summer term in the following year.           His
school prizes were numerous.      They included the Gregory Medal for
Latin prose, the Pember prize for Greek and Latin Grammar, the
Prior prize for Divinity, and the blue ribbon of Harrow, the Gregory
Scholarship on leaving school.       Of his influence as Head of the
School, the headmaster, Dr. Welldon, spoke in the warmest terms
of commendation.       He gained the respect and esteem of the boys
not only from his position in the School, but from his versatile
dramatic gifts. On each Speech-day he took a foremost part in
the various scenes that were acted in Greek, Latin, French, or
English. His familiarity with the French language and French
modes of speech enabled him to represent a French inn-keeper or
                                                                  "
peasant with much humour, and often with appropriate                gag,"
which added much to the force and the fun of his part,
                                   4M

                               APPENDIX                                    415
     He entered King's College, Cambridge, in 1893. His original
  intention had been to take the profession of Engineering, and during
  his first term he attended the lectures on Mechanism and Applied
  Mechanics by Professor Ewing, who thought that he showed much
  promise.     But it was soon obvious to the boy, as it had for some
  time been to his parents, that his tastes and aptitudes lay rather
  in literary and historical pursuits. He never showed much zeal
  for Natural Science, though fond of the objects of the countryside,
  and always interested in his rural rambles.            He accordingly read
  for the History Tripos, and passed      in the   1st  Class with the B.A. in
  1896, and also gained      the  Winchester      Reading     Prize. Both at
  Harrow Chapel      and  in the   King's College Chapel his reading of
  the lessons was unusually impressive.        His talent as an actor found
  larger scope at the Cambridge      Dramatic     Union. His rendering of
                                              "
  the part of the heroine in Euripides'          Iphigenia in Aulis," acted
 in Greek, was much praised.        In various    English and French plays,
 also,  he  gained a reputation   which  extended      beyond the university.
     He inherited his mother's love    of  music.      While still a small boy
 in Edinburgh he was taught the violin, and both at Harrow and
 in London he had further training on the instrument.                His violin
 was a great resource to him, and gave pleasure to those around
 him.     He had also a remarkably fine voice, and sang with taste
 and feeling.
     On leaving College he passed a Civil Service examination with a
 view to entering the Public Service.          There happened in 1897 to
 be no vacancies in one or other of the Departments which he would
 have wished to join, so that he had meanwhile to be contented
 with a place in the Local Government Board. In that office the
 excellence of his digests of evidence attracted the attention of the
 head of the Medical Department, Sir Richard Thorne-Thorne, who
was confident that he would rise high in the service.               But it was
desirable that he should have a wider scope for his abilities than
 the Local Government Board afforded.             Through the influence of
one of the Governing Body of Harrow School, Sir Matthew White
 Ridley, then Home Secretary, he was transferred in 1899 to the
Colonial Office, where he soon found himself in deeply interesting
and congenial work.
    Outside his official duties, his leisure hours for more than a year
were spent in making researches, partly among the papers pre
served by the Duke of Marlborough at Blenheim, on the history
of part of Marlborough's wars, with the object of writing an essay
on the Barrier Treaty of 1713, as a Thesis for a Fellowship at
King's College. He took his M.A. degree, and was elected to the
Fellowship in 1900.
    His work at the Colonial Office grew increasingly absorbing as
years passed, and he threw himself into it with zeal, gaining the
approbation of his seniors.      The years of Cambridge life had given
him many friends, with not a few of whom he was able to keep

41  6                       APPENDIX
in touch in London.       Endowed with a charm of manner which
made him everywhere a favourite, he seemed to be certainly
assured of a happy future.     Besides the promotion to be expected
in the Colonial Office there was always in his mind the possibility,
or even, as he would sometimes say, the probability of his being
sent on a mission of enquiry to some Crown Colony or other
Colonial centre.     Meanwhile, his income was more than sufficient
for his wants.     From the rooms which he rented in Queen's Road,
Bayswater, he had the pleasant Hyde Park on his daily walk to
Whitehall.      In the evenings his books and his violin were com
panions in his solitude ; though at times, when the office work was
heavy, he would bring it back with him to his quiet quarters and
advance it there.
   This active and promising life was brought to a premature close
by an accident on the Underground Railway on the morning of
December 6, 1910.      The shock to the family fell with the severest
blow upon his mother, whose health had been failing for some
years.    Her son was the greatest joy of her life, and he was devoted
to her.    From this crushing bereavement she never recovered, but
lingered in increasing feebleness for five years longer.        As she
earnestly desired, her ashes were laid at the Brookwood Cemetery
in the same grave with those of her beloved son.
   Out of the many letters of sympathy and appreciation which
came to the family, a few words may be quoted here from three.
Dr. Welldon, headmaster of Harrow School, wrote :
                                                         " The memory
of his bright and pure and honourable life at Harrow comes home
to me now with a vividness which makes his untimely fate seem
the more distressing and the more bewildering.       For you and yours
I feel more than I dare try to say." Dr. James, Provost of King's
                  " We were all so fond of
College, said :                            Roderick, and so proud of
him as a Scholar and Fellow. I cannot attempt to measure what
this blow must mean to you all ; but whatever comfort is derivable
from the memory of his life of kindliness and honour and dis
tinguished achievement, but most of all, of truth and goodness —
that is yours, and so too is the assurance of sympathy and sorrow
from all here."     The head of the Colonial Office, Mr. (afterwards
                                                                    " I
Viscount) Harcourt, in a letter of kindly sympathy wrote :
have only been Colonial Secretary for a short time ; but it was
sufficient for me to discover the brilliant abilities of your son,
whose work I had especially noticed in the last few days.       It may
be some consolation to you to know how much he was beloved by
all his colleagues."

                                      INDEX
Aberdeen      University, fourth cen          Bacon,    Roger, seventh centenary
      tenary of, 357.                               of, celebrated    at Oxford in
Accademia dei           Lincei,   Corsini           1914.  391-
      Palace, Rome, 330.                      Baker, Samuel, 112.
Academies, International         Associa      Baku visited, 298.
     tion of, 325, 342.                       Balfour of Burleigh, Lord, 251.
Acland, A. H. Dyke, 255.                      Ballantine, James, 14.
Adams, F. C, Montreal, 285.                   Balsani, Count Ugo, 330.
Agassiz, Alexander, 328.                      Baltimore, stay at, 285, 287.
   Louis, 95, 107.                            Banavie, 83.
Ailsa Craig, 104.                             Bannerman,        Mr. H. Campbell-,
Ainger, Canon, 208, 265.                            Prime Minister, letter from, 347.
Albert Committee formed to pro                Bargaining on the open sea, 193.
      mote friendship with Germany,           Baron Chalmers, 200.
      386.                                    Barr village, 105.
American Philosophical           Society,     Barrisdail, 80.
      Philadelphia, 289.                      Barrois, Prof. C, 306, 355.
Ancient Volcanoes of Great Britain,           Bascom, Miss F., 289.
      2 vols., published in 1897, 168,        Begbie, Dr. Warburton, 140, 172.
      282.                                    Ben Nevis, a night on the top of,
Antarctic     Expedition (1901-1904),              263.
     share of Royal Society's Secre           Bereavements in family, 406, 407.
      tary in its publications, 348.          Bird-life at St. Kilda, 266.
Antrim traversed with Jukes, 91.              Birthday letter from Austrian Geo
Apennines,     journeys among the,                 logists, 354.
      397-                                    Black, Adam, Lord Provost of
Ararat     mountains and Caucasus                  Edinburgh, n.
     seen from the steamer             on       A. & C, publishers, 165.
      Black Sea, 299.                           Joseph, lessons from his tomb,
Ardrossan, 114.                                    170.
Argyll, Duke of, 225, 226, 227,               Black Mount, 83.
     236.                                     Black Sea, voyage on from Batum
Arran, first visit to,  23 ; two boyish            to Crimea, 299.
     articles   on,    24 ;   frequently      Blackie, Prof. J. S., 36, 69, 125.
     visited, 112,     114,   200; last       Boni, Commendatore, 330, 362.
     visit to, 320.                           Bonn on the Rhine, 218.
Arthur's Seat, 31.                            Boue, Ami, 123 ; visit to, 126 ;
Athenaeum Club, election into,       190.          letters from, 122, 141, 151, 188 ;
Athens, visited, 302.                              his memoir received after his
Athol, Duke of, 84.                                death, 189.
Auchendrane Castle, III.                      Boyd, Dr. James,     8, 14.
Auvergne, visited, 90, 269, 315.              Breadalbane, Marquess of, 83.
Avebury, Lord, 322, 361, 386.                 Breakfast, students entertained     at,
Ayr, no.                                           155-
                                          417

418                                  INDEX
Bregenz, 129,                             Cheviot Hills, rambles among, 76.
Brigue, flooding at, 122.                 Christison, Prof., 65, 69, 158.
Bristow, H. B., 196, 221.                 Chrystal, Prof. George, 368.
British Academy,       foundation     of, Civil Service Commission, 43, 115.
      393-                                Civita Vecchia, 134.
British Association,   42, 69, 117, 146,  Clarke, Prof. W. B., 285, 356.
      239. 253. 313-                      Classical Association, President of
British    Tertiary Volcanic History,           (1910), 394.
      large memoir on, 222.               Cleckenbrod, extinct game of, 9.
Brogger, Prof., 232.                      Cockburnspath, 146.
 " Browns of                              Collins, Sir Richard Henn,
                 Haddington," 50.                                       360, 396.
Brown, Horatio F., 55, 398, 404.          Comrie, earthquake missed at, 206.
Brown, Dr. John (" Rab and his            Cooke, E. W., 70.
      Friends "), 159.                    Copley Medal, 353, 367, 368.
Browne, Sir Thomas, 41.                   Coventry, Andrew, Advocate, 24.
Bruce, Dr. W. S., 263.                    Cowper on students of Nature, 57.
Bryn Mawr, Ladies' College of, 289.       Credner, H., 355.
Bryson, A., 28.                           Crimea, a week in, 300.
Burney, Fanny, and Sir Isaac              Crimean War, recollections of, 34.
      Newton's house, 379.                Cunningham, Prof. D. J., 252.
Burns's country, no.
Bust of Author by Professor Lanteri       Dailly, 99, 100, 105.
      added to the collection of the      Dalnacardoch, 84.
      Geological Society, and a dup       Dalquharran Castle,     100,  103,  112,
      licate placed in the Library of           114.
      Edinburgh University, 403.          Daly, Judge, 291.
Butcher, S. H., 394.                      Dalwhinnie, 165.
Bute, 96.                                 Dana, Prof. J. D., 186.
                                          Dariel Pass, in Caucasus, 296.
Cadell, H. M., 216.                       Darlings of Priestlaw, 68.
Caird, Prof. Edward, 112.                 Darwin, Charles, 71, 129, 164, 191 ;
Calorese, Victor, at Messina, 139 ;            letter from, 192 ; Origin of
      accompanies the invalid back             Species, influence of, in Austria,
      to London, 140.                           129.
Campagna of Rome, 330.                       Francis, Foreign Sec. R.S., 340.
Campbell, John, of Islay, 112.               Sir George, 368.
Campi Phlegraei, 332.                     Daubree, Prof. A., 247, 278.
Canada visited, 184.                      Dawson, Dr. J. W., 185.
Canine companion, 53.                     Deaf mutes, finger alphabet of, 162.
Canna, isle of, 318.                      Dechen, H. von, 120.
Capellini, Prof., 331.                    De La Beche, Sir Henry, 18, 31.
Cape Wrath, sunset seen from, 193.        Denudation, lessons in, 79, 90, 91,
Carlandi, Onorato, 332.                         105, 178.
Carlyle, Dr. John A., 160.                Dinner menu, revival of one of     1747,
Carlyle, Thomas, visit to, 132 ; and            259-
      at Prof. Masson's house, 140.       Dinners, complimentary, 202, 322.
Carter, Judge, at Fort Bridger, 178.      Drachenfels and the Rhine, 218.
Cashmere, invitation to be geologist      Drifts, a group of superficial de
      in. 93-                                   posits, 94 ; detailed study of,
Caspian Sea, ebullition of inflam               94; "Essay on the Glacial Drift
       mable gas from its surface, 298.         of Scotland," 96; now mapped
Cathcart, Mr. Elias, 1n.                        by Survey, 97 : excursion to
Catskill Mountains, " turning of the                             Drifts " in east
                                                               "
                                                examine the
      leaf"   on, 185.                         coast from Berwick to Humber,
Catullus, home of, on Lago di Garda,           with Local Director, 98.
      visited, 399.                       Drummond, Henry, 166, 177, 197.
Chambers, Robert, 17, 31, 35.             Dryden, John, 173.
Chantilly, visit to Chateau of, 274.      Dublin, Trinity College, Tercen
Chemical      Analysis in Geological           tenary of, 252.
      Survey, 116.                        Due d'Aumale, reception by, 274.

                                       INDEX                                     419
Dunbar, 49, 51.                             Forest fires,   179.
Dunfermline, 67, 76.                        Fort Bridger,    178.
Dunure, Right Hon. T. F. Kennedy            Fort Ellis, hospitality of officers at,
       of, 100.                                  180.
Durness, difficult boating near, 193.       Fortis, Prof., Rome, 331.
                                            "
Dutton, Captain C. E., 183.                   Founders of Geology,"        281,   285,
                                                 3i I-
Early rising, 51.                           Fouque, Prof. Ferdinand,       248,   269,
East Linton, 49.                                 282, 283.
Edinburgh, geological attractions of,       France, first visit to, 89 ; centenary
       18; social life in, 157; histrionic       of the Institut of, 270 ; Geo
       talent in, 158.                           logical Society of, founded in
   Royal Society of, 65, 74, 93, 104,             Bout's house, 188 ; jealousy of
       107, 124, 170, 176,      190,  222,       France among Germans, 262.
       233 ; Royal Society     Club,   125. Franco-German War of 1870, 141.
   Royal Physical Society of, 34.           Franco-Scottish Society, 356.
   University, tercentenary of, 207 ;       Franqueville, Comte de, 275.
       Chair of Geology founded, 142,       Fraser, W., W.S., 21.
        145.                                Freeman, Edward A., 208.
    British Association meets in, 253.      French family life, 147.
   Evening Club, 125.                       Frost, severe, 87.
Eigg island, 216.                           Froude's Oceana, 208.
Elgin, 165.                                 Fuchs, Prof., 128.
Eliot, Charles W., 185.
 El lice, Edward, M.P., 79.                 Gala Water, fish-spearing          in, by
Encyclopaedia Britanntca, its article             torchlight, 20.
        " Geology," intended to be          Galloway, charms of, 146.
        expanded into Text-book, 165.       Galton, Francis, 367.
Escher von der Linth, 128.                  Garcia,      Manuel,    his   hundredth
Evans, Mr. Henry, 260, 316.                       birthday, 343.
 Evans, John, F.R.S., Treas. Royal           Gas, oil, and water ejections, 298.
        Society, 114, 253, 363.              Gaudry, Prof. J. A., 248, 315.
 Examinership in Geology to Uni              Geikie, Prof. James, 97, 107.
        versity of London, 93.                 Walter, Scottish Academician,
 Excursions with artizans, 130.                    162.
                                             Geological   Chair at Edinburgh Uni
 Faroe Isles, cruises to, 267 ; clean             versity, 142 ; created and filled,
        neatness of population con                 145 ;   opening    address,    150 ;
        trasted with filth of that of             initial difficulties of the Pro
        the Outer Hebrides, 268.                  fessor, 152 ; his last session,
 Fast Castle, excursion to, 146.                   199 ; last long excursion, 200.
 Faucit, Miss Helen, 13.                       Society, Author elected into, 1859;
 Faujas-Saint-Fond, 357.                          Council, 1883 ; award of Mur-
 Faure, M. Felix,           President of           chison Medal, 1881 ; Wollaston
        French Republic, 271.                      Medal, 1895 ; President, 1890-
 Ferrier, Dr. David, 318.                          92, 1906-08 ; Foreign Secretary
 Findhorn River, 165.                              since 1908.
 Finger language of deaf mutes, 162.           Survey, first heard of, 30 ; ap
 Firth of Forth, memoir on Carboni                 pointment to, 43 ; work of, 44 ;
        ferous volcanic rocks of basin             accoutrement of a member of,
        of, 176.                                   46 ; popular guesses at the
 Fissure eruptions of the Far West, 182.           work of, 47 ; salaries in, 48 ;
 Fleming, Prof. John, 17, 63.                      hours of work in, 48 ; higher
 Forbes, Edward, 35 ; his Life,                    aspect of this work, as a serious
        begun by Wilson and com                    study, 56 ; Scottish Branch
        pleted by the Author, 74-75.               separated,    114 ;   Author ap
 Fife, abundant evidence of volcanic               pointed Director-general (1881),
        action in, 67, 76, 89.                     195 ; duties of the office, 203 ;
 Forbes, Prof. James David, 27, 118,               appointment of Committee on,
         "4.  143-                                 318.

420                                    INDEX
Geological Survey regarded by suc           Harrow     School, 209, 233 ; Author
      cessive Governments as a tem               appointed to represent Royal
      porary service, 304; Murchison's            Society on Board of Governors,
      contrary opinion, 304.                      250.
"                 Time," an address at       Harvey-Gibson, Prof. R. T., 200.
  Geological
      British Association, 313.             Haslemere,     country home estab
Geology, a boy's first glimpse of, 15 ;           lished  at, 402    ;   changed  con
      article in Encyclopaedia Brit-             dition of the village during
      annica the basis 01 Text-book,              war time, 408 ; Educational
      165 ; rapid sale of first edition,          Museum      of,      408 ;   Natural
      306 ; second edition published              History Society, 409 ; occa
      1885, third edition 1893, fourth           sional addresses given to this
      edition 1003, 328, 330 ; Class-             Society by the President, 409.
      Book of Geology,      1885.            Hauer, 127.
Giant's Causeway, 92.                       Haughton, Prof. Samuel, 253.
Gibbon, on spread of English litera         Hayden, Dr. F. V., 177, 178, 187.
      ture, 163    ;  on Rome,    330.      Hayden Memorial Geological Award
Gifford village, 50.                              (gold medal), 328.
Gilbert, G. K., letter from, 198          ; Heddle, M. Foster, 30.
      visit from, 224.                      Herdman, Sir W. A., 166.
Gilman, Dr. D. C, 280.                      Hibbert, Dr. Samuel, 17.
Girvan, 105.                                Highlands, first visit to, 6 ; tour
Glacial Period, or Ice Age, 107           ;      through, with Murchison, 77-
     tracking its traces, 108, 122.               85 ;   determination of true
Glaciers, visits to, 108, 121.                   structure of north-west region
Gladstone, Mr. W. E., 149, 258.                  of, 214 ; publication of the
Glasgow, first visit to, 5, 6.                   revision, and detailed mapping
Glen Quoich, 79, 80.                             to be undertaken,        215.
Glen Roy, Parallel Roads of, 224.           High School, Edinburgh, entered, 8 ;
Glen Spean, 224.                                 games of, 9 ; installation of a
Glen   Tilt,  84.                                new Rector, n.
Gonville and Caius College, 400th           Holmes, Oliver W., 185 ; letter from,
     birthday of, 392.                            186.
Gosselet, Prof., 355.                       Hooker, Sir Joseph, 345.
Gourock, 126.                               Home, John, 166, 213, 214, 243, 244.
Grampian Hills, 165 ; include high          Homer, Leonard, 61, 67, 89, 100 ;
     wide plains, 191.                           obituaries of, 103, 104.
Gray, Asa, 186.                             Howell, H. H., 43, 86, 97, 203.
Great Salt Lake, 183.                       Huggins, W., 335, 339, 340, 376.
Greece and its islands, seen for the        Hurricane on sea between Sevas
     first time, 301.                            topol and Odessa, 300.
Green, A. H., 219, 279.                     Hutcheson, David, his fleet of
  John Richard, 208.                             steamboats,     32.
Greville, R. K., 18.                        Hutton, James, publication of a
Grey Mare's Tail, 157.                           portion of the third volume of
Guiscardi, Prof., 137.                           his Theory of the Earth, 308.
Gulland, Prof. G. C, 200.                   Huxley, Prof., 197, 228.
Gypsies,     a visit      to their head
     quarters, 77 ; their good looks,       Ice Age, article on, 99.
     77-                                    Imperial College of Science            and
                                                 Technology, 349.
Haddington, 43, 49, 50.                     Indians, encountered in Yellow
Hague, Arnold, 287.                              stone country, 180. •
Haidinger, W., 127.                         Inner Hebrides, resumption of work
Hall, S1r James, 269.                            in, 215.
Hall, James, of Albany, 185.                Innspruch, 128.
Halstatt, salt mines of, 127.               International Association of Aca
Hamilton, Sir William, 37.                       demies, founded in Paris (1901),
Handwriting as an indication            of       325 ; second meeting in London
     character,      211,  341.                  (May 1904), 342 ; at Rome, 386.

                                        INDEX                                     421
International       Geological Congress,      Ladies' Geological      Excursions,  156,
       217,   223,   262, 292, 315, 333,            201.
       386.                                   Ladies'      Educational    Association,
Inveraray, county meeting at, 226.                  geological lectures, 156, 199,
Inverinet, 80.                                      200 ; long excursion       and its
Inverkeithing, 67.                                  minutes of daily proceedings,
Iona, 230.                                          201.
Ireland, first geological excursion           Lago di Garda,       thunderstorm on,
       in, 91 ; disturbed political con             399  ; some features of, 405.
       dition of, 206 ; visits to, 224,       Lamarck, 356.
       229, 317.                              Lammermuir Hills, 67.
Irish car accident, 235 ; another             Lanciani, Prof., 330, 362.
       more serious, 318.                     Lang, Prof., 129.
    coast scenery, 317.                       Lankester, Sir. E. R., 368.
    stall of Geological Survey, 204,          Lapparent, Albert Auguste de, 217,
       211 ; reduced, 222.                          224, 249, 355.
I sch 1, 127.                                 Largs, 119.
Italy,    winter of 1902-03 spent in          Larmor, Sir Joseph, Senior Secre
       Rome,    329 ; south Italy and               tary R.S., 340, 351, 388, 396.
       Rome visited in 1910, again in         Latin, early love of, 12 ; Scots pro
       1913 and in 1914,         386, 396,          nunciation of, 12, 108 ; a verse
       403-                                         translation from Ovid, my
                                                    first published production, 13;
              Prof. Robert, 29, 34, 133.            studied at Edinburgh Univer
  enkyn. Prof, and Mrs. Fleeming,
Jameson,                                            sity, 35 : useful in Norway, 109.
                                                 literature, revival of interest
       159-
              Samuel, quoted, 57.                   in, and a new Society      formed,
  ukes, J. B., in Antrim, 91 ; his
Johnson,                                            395-
       Student's Manual of Geology,           Lecture audiences, various types of,
       141.                                         290.
Jura, Campbell of, 78.                        Lecturing to Deaf Mutes, 162.
Jura, isle of, ascent        in,          its    to Lunatics, 161.
                                   79 ;
       raised beaches, 265.                      at School of Mines, 87.
Jura Mountains (Switzerland),            ex   Legion of Honour, 283.
       cursions   among, 129.                 Leidy, Dr. Joseph, 178, 187.
                                              Lichnowsky, Prince, 385.
                                              Liddesdale, 95.
Kasbek, 297.                                  Lind, Jenny, 94.
Kelvin, Lord,      146, 235, ; his jubilee,   Linlithgow, 64.
       314 ; his   burial, 350, 366.          Linnaeus, Royal Society sends re
Kempe, A. B., Treasurer R.S., 339.                  presentatives to the 200th anni
Kennedy of Dunure, ioi ; Mrs.                       versary of his birth, 344.
       Kennedy, 102.                          Li pari Islands, visited, 131.
Keogh, Sir Alfred, 349.                       Lister, Lord, 157, 314, 366.
Kertch and its mud volcanoes, 300.            Literary Society, election into, 264 ;
King Edward, 346 ; death of, 387 ;                  attended, 332, 358 ; Sir Theo
      funeral, 388.                                 dore Martin at, 359 ; resigna
Kinnaird, Lord, 118.                                tion of membership of, 359.
Kirk of Scotland, recollections of            Literary work, 51, 66, 75, 87, 96, 99,
       Disruption of, 5.                            104,   105,  107,  124,  149,  160,
Kirk Yetholm, 77.                                   161,   163,  164,  165,  168,  176,
Knight Commander of the Order of                                 206,        218,  219,
                                                    177.   190.        207,
      the Bath, 346.
                                                    259,   281,  308,  311,  320,  328,
Knighthood,         ceremony      of con
                                                    362.
      ferring,  240, 347.                     Livingstone Gold Medal, 358.
Knox, John,       50.                         Loch Duich, 80.
                                              Loch Maree to Ullapool, a walk of
Laacher See, visited, 121.                          thirty miles, 83.
Lacroix, A., 248, 357.                        Loch Skene, 98.
"Lad of the Stones," 33-                      Logan, Sir William, 25, 164.

422                                    INDEX
Lomond, Loch, 6.                           Martin, Sir Theodore, 13, 358.
London, first visit to, 19 ; winter        Mason University College, address
     work at, 72, 87, 132, 134.                 to, on
                                                         " Science in Education "
  Water supply of. Royal Commis                 (1898), 310.
     sion on, 251.
" Long                                     M'Henry, A., 2n, 317.
           Excursion "      of   the  Geo  Mecklenburg, Dukes George and
     logical Class at Edinburgh,      153,      Michel of, reception at Oranien-
     154, 165, 166, 200.                        baum by, 293.
Longfellow, the poet, 185.                 Mercier, Mile., 210.
Lords, House of, first visit to, 20.       MerimS, Prosper, 79.
Lorenzo, G. de, 332.                       Merit, Order of, bestowal of, 402.
Lossen, Prof., 217.                        Messina, renewal of malaria at, 138      ;
Lossiemouth, 165.                               voyage from, 139.
Lowell, Mr. Augustus, 175, 185.            Michel-Levy, A., 248, 282, 316.
  Institute, lectures at, 176.             Michel, Peter,     121.
Lucretius on study of Nature, 56.          Microscope,     applied to petrography,
Luncheon, given up, 51.                         28, 117.
Lushington, Mrs., 158.                     Millais, J. E., 112.
Lyall, C, 18, 67, 69, 164.                 Miller, Hugh, his Old Red Sandstone,
Lyndsay (Sir David), his poems                  18; first introduction to, 24;
     read, 64.                                  letters from, 24, 40, 58 ; his
                                                papers       at Royal       Physical
Macaulay, Thomas Babington, 13.                 Society,      25 ;   encouragement
Macbride, Rev. Alexander, 96.                   from,     34,  40,   58 ; his latest
Macconochie, A., 320.                           find of northern shells between
Macculloch, John, 54 ; Bou6 on                  Forth and Clyde, 58 ; last inter
     him, 151 ; correction of his               view with, 59 ; his death, 59 ;
     work in Skye, 215.                         Mrs. Miller collected and pub
MacKinlay, Mr., President of United             lished his works ; his centen
     States, interview with, 288.               ary, 60, 329.
Mackinnon, Rev. J., 32.                    Moray Firth in a rage, 213.
   Rev. Dr. Donald, 83.                    Moselle River, movement of pebbles
Maclagan, Sir D., 125, 158.-                    on bed of, 120.
Maclaren, Charles, 19, 55, 61.             Mozart, 128.
Maclean of Pennycross, 93.                 Muir, Sir William, 253.
Macmillan, Alexander (head of              Mull, leaf-beds of, 92 ; chalk flints
     Messrs. Macmillan & Co.), 26,              under lavas of, 92.
      66, 72, 86, 112, 132,      134.      Murchison, Dr. Charles,       140.
Macmillan & Co., geological works            Donald, 80.
      to be published by, 165.                SirR.,   40, 42, 77-85, 105, 106, 140 ;
Macnee, S1r D., 125.                             his contest with Government
Macpherson, Prof. Norman, 216.                   departments       in the founding
Macrae, Mr., minister of Glenelg,                of the Geology Chair at Edin
     81.                                         burgh, 142 ; last visit to, 148 ;
Magdalene       College,       Cambridge,        Life of in progress, 160 ; pub
      Pepysian dinner at, 361.                   lication of, 163 ; G. P. Scrope's
Makdougall- Brisbane medal, 176.                 opinion of the biography, 164.
 Malarial fever,       137,     138,  139; Murchison's opinion that the Geo
      revival of, 140 ; recurs at                logical Survey should be a per-
      intervals for seventeen years,             minent service, 304.
                                           " Murchison of Tarradale
                                                                               Mem
      140.
 Man, Isle of, surveyed, 263.                    orial
                                                        "
                                                            bequeathed     by Miss
 Marble, rapid decay of in open air,             Yule, 246.
      170-172.                             Murray, Dr. John (Challenger), 192.
 Marr.Prof.J. E.,354.                      Murray, J. H. A., 95.
                                           " Murray, Will," Scott's friend,
 Marriage engagement, 145.
 Marriage of my youngest daughter               14.
      Gab r idle, 407.                     Murren, display of summer lightning
Marsh, Prof. O. C, 187, 291.                     at, 333.
 Martin, Charles, 119, 128.                Museum of Practical Geology,         29.

                                    INDEX                                      4*3
Nairn,   165.                            Pentland Hills, find of fossils in, 55.
Naples,    in spring of 1873, and in     Pentland, Mr., 135.
     spring of 1903, 332.                Permian volcanic rocks in Ayrshire,
Naples, Royal Society of, 386 ; and             11o.
     its President, 387.                 Petrographical progress in Geo
National Physical Laboratory, 375.             logical Survey, 116, 117.
Natural History, my first pursuits       Phillips, Prof. John, 137.
     to, 15-                             Picardy, holidays in, 1 73.
Nature, the deep joy of its study, 66,   Pillans, Prof., 35, 38, 60, 94, 100         ;
Nature, celebration     of its fiftieth        death of, 103.
     year of publication, 262.           Pignatel, Alice Gabrielle, 145.
Naval Tank, 375.                            Victor, 145.
Neaves, Lord, 125.                       Playfair, John, 356.
Newquay, Cornwall, 210.                     Sir Lyon, 143.
Newton, Prof. Alfred, 261, 362.          Prain, Sir David, 386.
Niagara Falls, visited, 184.             Press-cutting agencies, 254.
Nichol, Prof. John, 112.                 Prestwich, Joseph, 136, 223, 278.
Nicol, William, 28.                      Prince Eugen at Linnaeus festival
Nicolson, Alexander, 38, 147.                  (1905), 344. 346.
Noble, Sir Andrew, 399.                  Poets, homes of Roman, intended
  Lady and Miss, 400.                          studies in this subject put an
Norton, Mr. (American School at                end to by the War, 405 ; only
     Rome),     331.                           two essays were published, 406.
Norsk language, 109, 11o.                Poincare, M. Raymond, 271, 273.
Norway, visits to, 106, 108, 231.        Pompeii, 332.
Novels, Carlyle on popular craze for,    Portrait, another added to Royal
     133-                                      Society's collection, 403.
                                         Poteen, or illicit Irish whiskyj 212.
Oecumenical Council in Rome, 135.
Ogden Junction, 183.
                                         Powell,    J.  W.,  184, 197, 285.
Oil-shale industry of Scotland, 45.
                                         Queen     Anne, decay       of her statue
Old Red Sandstone, unconforma-
                                              in London, 172.
     bility in that of south Scot
     land, 74 ; mapping of, 167,         Queensferry, South, 64.
     1 68 ; memoir on, 168.              Queen Victoria's visit to Scotland in
OUnellus in N.-W. Scotland, 238.             1842, 3; confers knighthood, 240.
Orcadie, Lake, 168.
Ordnance Survey maps, 46 ; De            Raasay,     65.
                                         Railway       between Edinburgh and
     partmental Committee on, 251,            Glasgow, opening of in 1842, 6.
Origin of Species, publication of
     Darwin's, 71 ; its influence in     Raised beaches of Jura, 267.
                                                                    " Gentle
                                         Ramsay, Allan, his
     Austria, 129.
                                              herd
                                                      " still acted by Shep      the
Orkney and Shetland       Islands, 168 ;
                                              peasantry,       55 ;   his house in
     cruises among them         in  the
     Aster, 277.                               Edinburgh,      130.
Osborne, Prof. H. F., 291.                 A. C,     23, 31, 40,86, 112, 113, 117;
Ovid, 109 ; . his native district             last visit      to Scotland,     194 ;
     visited, 397.                            resignation,      knighthood, 194 ;
                                              memoir of him, 238, 259.
Oxford Geological Chair, 219, 279.
Oxford Junior Scientific Club, 219.      Ramsay of Kildalton, Islay, 78.
                                         Ramsay Lodge, Edinburgh, 130 ;
Padua, visited, 404.                          return to, 140, 159 ; quitted
Page, Walter H., American Am                  for a house in Colinton Road,
     bassador, letter from, 400.               174.
Paips, games of, 10.                     Rate     of a Geological           process,
Parentage, 2.                                 measurement of, 169.
Passports, under Papal regime, 134.      Rayleigh, Lord, his support of the
Pasteur, 247.                                  National Physical Laboratory,
Paxton, Dr., of Norham, 76.                    375 : becomes        Pres. R.S. in
Peach, Mr. B. N., 166, 214, 229, 243,          I905, 341 > resigns the Chair
     244  ;  letter from,  321.                in 1908, 364.

424                                  INDEX
Reale Accaderaia dei Lincei, 314.               new King         and Queen, 389 j
Rede Lecture             1909), 392.            resignation       of Presidentship,
" Red Lions " (Juneat British Associa           400.
     tion, 147.                              The Royal Society and the uprise
Reid, Mr. Whitelaw, 290.                        of scientific    societies, 390 ;  its
Renard, Abb6, 192 ;            at Cape          relation to the universities, 391.
    Wrath, 193.                           Royal       Society,     its relation to
Reusch, Hans, 231.                              Government Departments, 338 ;
Rhine, excursions on, 120, 121.                 to the allocat1on of money
Richardson, the Rev. Mr., 99.                   voted by Parliament for re
Richthofen, Baron F. von, 182, 254.             search, 338 ; and to foreign
Roderick, our son, birth of, 174;               Academies, 339.
    death of, 396, see Appendix.          Royal Society, Author's election
Rogers, Wm., 185.                               into, 1865 ; member of Coun
Romanes Lecture (1898), 309.                    cil, 1885, and V.P. ; again
Rome, first visit to, 135 ; a winter            in     1 889- 1 893    as    Foreign
    in. 329 ; electric lighting of,             Secretary ; and from 1903 to
    314 ;   excavations    in, 135.             1 91 3 as Secretary       and Presi
Roosevelt, Theodore, met in Wash                dent.
    ington, 288.                          Rushforth, Mr. (British School at
Roscoe, Sir Henry, 108, 349.                    Rome), 331.
Royal Institution, centenary of, 312.     Rum, island, scenery and geology
Royal Society of London, founda                of, 216.
    tion of, by Charles II., 365 ;        Ruskin, Mr., 159.
    dignity and prestige of, 395 ;        Russell, W. H, 112.
    duties of President, 366 ; two        Russia, Emperor and Empress              of,
    evening receptions in the year,             292.
    369  ;   selection   of candidates       Grand Duke Constantine,          292.
    for election by the Fellows, 369 ;
    not more than fifteen elected         Sabbath observance in the High
    annually, 369 ;
                            " the odd          lands, 83.
    man," 370 ; the Society repre         St. Andrews, 118.
    sented on governing body of           St. Kilda, cruise to, 266.
    some public institutions, 372 ;       Salisbury, Lord, letter from, 240          ;
    the President is a Trustee of              correspondence with, 255.
    the    British     Museum,      372 ; Salt Lake City,      184.
    relation of Society to National       Salzburg, 128.
    Physical Laboratory, 375 ; Pre        Sandberger, 128.
    sident     consulted     by Prime     Saratow on the Volga, 296.
    Minister, 376 ; Portrait Gallery      Scenery of Scotland viewed in con
    °'. 377 ; removal of pictures to           nection with its Physical Geology,
    the basement during the War,               The, 104, 105, 106, 311.
    377 ; connection     of the Society   Scharff, R. F., 200.
    with Gresham College, 378.            Schmitz, Dr. Leonard, n.
  Celebration of the two hundred          School, my first, 3.
    and fiftieth anniversary of the       School of Mines, London ; A. G.
    Society,     379 ;   the Society's         suddenly called to take Ram
    Record and Charter Book, 380.              say's place, 87.
  Speech by the German Ambas              Science Primers begun, 161 ; their
    sador, Prince Lichnowsky, at               success, 163.
    the Society's      annual dinner,     Science     Scholarships       Committee,
     385 ; funeral of King Edward              Royal Commission Exhibition,
    at Windsor, President sum                  1 85 1, 348.
    moned to assist thereat, 388 ;        Scorpions of ancient type, in Car
     President and a Vice-President            boniferous strata of Scotland,
    attended a Court to present                191.
    an     Address      conveying    the  Scotland,    improvement of travel
     Society's     sorrow      for   the       ling facilities in, 33.
    death of King Edward, and its            Geological surveying transferred
    wishes for the prosperity of the           to west coast of, 99.

                                      INDEX                                     425
Scott,   Captain,   of Antarctic fame,    Strath (Skye) marble, not Lias, but
      376.                                       Durness limestone, 215.
   Sir Walter, inauguration of his        Strathcona, Lord, 357.
      monument      at Edinburgh, 7 ;     Students' farewell dinner, 202.
      places given fame to, by, 95.       Studer, 128.
Scottish Branch of Survey created,        Suess, E., 127, 334, 352, 353 ; his
       113; organisation of, 115.                birthday address to me, 353.
Scottish Reminiscences, written and       Sulmona visited, 398.
      published in 1904, 362.             Sunday among the hills, 82.
Scottish School of Geology, 143, 144,     Swedish Academy of Sciences, 345.
      145.150-                            Switzerland, climbing in, with my
Scot, Ulster definition of, 212.                 daughter from school, 270.
Scrope, G. P., 89, 131, 164.              Sylvester,      J. J., remembered at
Sedgwick, Adam, 42 ; his reminis                 Baltimore,    286.
      cences, 72.
Selwyn, A., 185.                          Tap o' Noth, views from, 213        ;  fine
Shiels, Tibbie, hostelry of, 98,                 crystalline rocks at, 213.
Siccar Point, 146.                        Teaching,     pleasure of, 199.
Sick leave, first application for, in     Teall, J. J. H., 222.
      thirty-seven years of service,      Tennyson, Alfred, 106, 158.
      246.                                Terek River, 297 ; its round towers,
Simon, Jules, oration by, 272.                   297.
Sirmione, Lago di Garda, visited,         Termier, Prof., 355.
      399. 4°5-                           Thomson, Joseph, African explorer,
Skae, W., 30.                                    166.
Skye, 32, 42, 54, 57, 65.                 Thrust planes on south coast,        228.
Slavery of colliers and salters in        Tietze, Dr., 333.
      Scotland,   16.                     Tiflis, 298.
Slieve League, discovery on top of,       Tobacco at dinner, 254.
      221.                                Tombstones,       researches among, 169.
Smith, James, of Jordanhill, 96.          Torell, Dr., 224.
Smyrna, a night at, 302.                  Torridon, Glen, walk through, 82.
                                          "
Snake River, lava plain of, 182.            Trap rocks," 63.
Snowed-up in Southern Uplands, 98.        Travel, importance of, to geologist,
Solan goose, how to cook, 101.                   89.
Sollas, Prof., 279.                       Treig, fording the River,      225.
Solothurn, 129.                           Tristram, Canon, 362.
Somerville, Mrs., 137.                    Trossachs, visited, 7.
Sorbonne, an address at the, 356.
Sorby, H. C, 28, 117, 312, 363.           Uintah Mountains, splendid view of
Sourakhany, great discharge of gas               denudation-sculpture from crest
     at, 299.                                    of, 178.
"               "   of   North   Bridge,  Unter Aar glacier, visited, 122.
   Spar-caves
      Edinburgh,    169.                  Upsala, Linnaeus festival. Royal
Spencer, Earl, letter of appoint                 Society    sends representatives,
     ment from, 195.                             345 ; survival of customs at the
Spey River, 165.                                conferring of degrees at the
Stassf urt, chief salt mine visited, 217.       university, 345.
Stevenson, David, engineer, 169.
Stevenson, Robert Louis, 157.             Valedictions on resigning the Chair
Stevenson, Thomas, engineer, 157,               of Geology at Edinburgh, 202.
     158.                                 Verneuil, M. de., 136.
Stockholm, Swedish royal family at        Vesuvius, ascent of, with Prestwich,
     the Linnaeus festival, 345.                136 ; in eruption, 302.
Stone, Sir Benjamin, his parties at       Vienna, visited, 126.
     House of Commons, 361.               Vladikavkaz, 296.
Story of a Boulder, publication of, 66.   Volcanic rocks, abundant in the
Strahlegg Pass crossed, 121.                    Lothians, 61 ; how they led to
Strasburg, visited after the war of             all my subsequent studies and
     1870,   147.                               travel, 62.

426                                     INDEX
Volga, sail of    1,100  miles down the        Wind in geological mapping, 49.
     river, 295   ; leakage of oil at the      Windsor Castle, garden party at,
     stations,   295.                                343-
Voting at Naples, with two saucers,            Wright, W. Aldis, 208.
     one of white the other of black           Writer to the Signet, office of        a, 21,
     balls, 386.                                     29.
                                               Women, struggle for medical educa
Wadham       College and the Royal                   tion, 155 ; no opposition from
     Society, 391.                                   the Arts' side, 156 ; excursions
Walcott, C. D., 285, 287.                           for women, 156.
Wales, South, re-mapping of coal               Wordsworth on geologists, 57.
     field, 239.
Wallace, Alfred Russel, 366.
Wasatch Mountains, age of granite              Yachting       cruises,   annual,   started,
                                                     260, 262.
     of, 188.
                                               Yarrow, Sir Alfred, 375.
Washington, visit to, 287.
                                               Yellowstone region, traverse of , 1 80 ;
Water-colour sketching, pleasures                   clear nights in,
     of, 173.
                                                                               180 ;    Red
                                                     Indians, 180 ; ancient glaciers,
Wellington, Great Duke of, 20.                       of, 188.
Welwood, Allan Maconochie, 76.
                                               Yule, Miss,     242 ; her generous gifts,
Whales in Scottish Seas, 267.
Whaling stations created by for                      242,   245 ; her bequest of the
                                                     Murchison of Tarradale Mem
     eigners among the Western                      orial, 246.
     Isles, 267.
Whitaker, W., 107.                             Young, John, M.D., 90.
Williams, Prof. G. H., 280.                       J. (Paraffin Young), 45.
Wilson, Daniel, 133.
  Dr. E. A., of Antarctic expedi               Zirkel, Ferdinand,         119,   120,   128,
     tion, 348, 376.                                 210, 217,      218,   295,  296,   334,
  Dr. George, 26, 40, 50 ; death of,                 355-
     7»-                                       Zittel,   128.
            PRINTED   IN CHEAT  BRITAIN  EY ROERRT MACLKHOSR      AND CO. LTD.
                             THI UNIVERSITY  fRBSS, GLASGOW

                           WORKS           BY
SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE
The Founders of Geology.                      8vo.     ios. net.
Annals of the Royal Society Club in the 18th
   and 19th Centuries.             With Portraits.      8vo.    18s. net.
Landscape in History and other Essays.                              8vo.
   8s. 6d. net.
The Ancient              Volcanoes          of    Great Britain.
   2  vols.    Illustrated.     Super royal 8vo.       36s. net.
Text-Book of Geology.                       2    vols.    Illustrated.
   Medium 8vo.          30s. net.
Glass-Book            of Geology.             Illustrated.       Crown
   8vo.     7s. 6d. net.
Outlines of Field Geology.                     Illustrated.       Globe
   8vo.     3s. 6d.
A Primer of Geology.                     Illustrated.        Pott 8vo.
   is. 9d.     Paper, is. 6d.
Box of Specimens                  to illustrate         the Primer
   of Geology.          12s. net.
Elementary Lessons in Physical Geography.
   Illustrated.       Fcap. 8vo.      5s.    Questions on the same,
    is. 9d.
A Primer of Physical Geography.                            Illustrated.
   Pott 8vo.        is. 9d.
Geography of the British Isles.                       Pott 8vo.    is. 3d.
          LONDON         :  MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.

  A       Selection of New Books
Reminiscences.              By the Rev. A.                H.      Sayce,
    D.Litt., LL.D., D.D., Sometime Professor of Assyriology
    in the University of Oxford. With Portrait. 8vo.                  18s.
    net.
Seventy-two Years at the Bar.                            A Memoir.
    By Ernest Bowen-Rowlands.               With Photogravure Por
    trait and Spy's Cartoon reproduced in colour. 8vo. 18s.
    net.
        This book deals with the career of Sir Harry Poland, who has long
     been pre-eminent in the domain of law.
The Journal of Marie Leneru.                          Translated by
    William Aspenwall Bradley.             With an Introduction        by
    Francois de Curel, Member of the French Academy, and a
    Reminiscence by Madame Mary Duclaux.                    Crown 8vo.
    ios. 6d. net.
Political Portraits.              Second Series.          By Charles
    Whibley.      Crown 8vo.       7s. 6d. net.
Memories          of the Russian Court.                     By Anna
   Viroubova.        With    Portraits     and    other   Illustrations.
   Extra Crown 8vo.          15s. net.
Richard the Lion Heart.                       By Kate Norgate,
                 "                         "
   author of        John Lackland,"          The Minority of Henry
   III,"    etc.  8vo.    16s. net.
A History of the British Army.                         By the Hon.
   J.   W.    Fortescue, LL.D. Vol. XL               1815-1838.     With
   Maps     and  Plans. 8vo. 40s. net.
Letters Written during the Indian Mutiny.
   By Fred Roberts, Lieutenant Bengal Horse Artillery,
   afterwards Field-Marshal Earl Roberts, V.C., K.G. With
   a Preface by his daughter Countess Roberts, and Photo
   gravure Portraits, Maps and Plans. Pott 4to.                  ios. 6d.
   net.
           LONDON       :  MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.

   A     Selection of New Books
A History of Medieval Ireland from                         1110 to
    1513.    By Edmund Curtis, M.A., Erasmus Smith Pro
    fessor of Modern History,         University   of Dublin.   With
    Maps.     8vo.     21s. net.
The History. of Ireland.                  By Stephen Gwynn.
    With   2 Maps.       8vo.   12s. 6d. net.
In Quest of El Dorado.                    By Stephen Graham.
    8vo.    12s. net.
Life in Southern Nigeria: The Magic, Beliefs,
    and Customs of the Ibibio Tribe.                 By P. Amaury
    Talbot, Resident, Nigeria. Illustrated.           8vo.  2is. net.
Big Game and Pygmies                    :  the Experiences of
    a Naturalist in Central African Forests in Quest
    of the Okapi. By Cuthbert Christy, M.B., CM. (Edin.),
    Officier de l'Ordre de la Couronne of Belgium, F.R.G.S.,
    F.Z.S., etc. With an Introduction by Sir Harry H.
    Johnston, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., and with 120 Illustrations
    and a Map. 8vo.
Anatolica.          By Harry Charles Luke, Assistant
    Governor of Jerusalem, author of
                                                "
                                                  The Fringe of the
    East,"    "
                 The City of Dancing Dervishes," etc. With
    Frontispiece in colour, Map, and other Illustrations. 8vo.
Amurath         to   Amurath.           By Gertrude Lowthian
                         "
    Bell, author of        The Desert and the Sown," etc.        New
    Edition.     Illustrated.    8vo.
Savage       Life       in Central Australia.               By G.
    Home, V.D., M.A., M.D., Ch.B., and G. Aiston, Mounted
    Police of South Australia.        Illustrated.   8vo.
          LONDON         :  MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.

  A      Selection of New Books
My Native Devon.               By the Hon.          J.  W. Fortescue,
   C.V.O.     Extra Crown 8vo.          1os. 6d. net.
            THE BLUE GUIDES.                 NEW VOLS.
England.         Edited by Findlay                 Muirhead,         M.A.,
   F.R.G.S.      With      81 Maps and Plans.            Second   Edition.
   Fcap. 8vo.       16s. net.
The French Alps.               Edited by Findlay Muirhead
   and Marcel        Monmarche.        With      25   Maps     and Plans.
   Fcap. 8vo.       ios. net.
Folk -Lore in the Old Testament                             :   Studies
   in Comparative Religion,               Legend, and Law. By
   Sir    James George          Frazer, F.R.S., F.B.A.,               D.C.L.
   Abridged Edition in one volume.               8vo.     18s. net.
Extinct Plants and Problems of Evolution.
   By Dukinfield         Henry Scott, D.Sc, F.R.S., author of
   "
      Studies in Fossil Botany," etc. Illustrated with 63
   Figures and a Frontispiece.           8vo.      1os. 6d. net.
Ancient Hunters. By W.                   J. Sollas, D.Sc.,        F.R.S.,
   Professor of Geology and Palaeontology in the University
   of Oxford.       Third Edition. Illustrated.            8vo.
Text Book of Palaeontology.                          By Karl A. von
    Zittel, late Professor of Geology and Palaeontology in
    the University of Munich.           8vo.
       Vol.  III.    MAMMALIA.           Revised by Max Schlosser,
    Ph.D.     Translated under          the Direction         of the late
    Charles R. Eastman, Ph.D., by Marguerite L. Engler
    and Lucy P. Bush. Illustrated.
        Dr. A. Smith Woodward, F.R.S., of the British Museum (Natural
     History) is completing the revision of this volume, which concludes the
     English edition of the work, and is seeing it through the press.
           LONDON        :   MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.


I



                     ¦ ,\
                      ^m  .'¦••Vv
^av-Vxv:^ ^^^B
           :-Xs :--n

